---
title: Degeneracy Pressure
genre: Science Fiction / Suspense
---
You don’t care for coffee, which is unfortunate, because the energy drinks
probably aren’t doing your health any favors. They don’t send you to space
unless you’re pretty goddamn healthy. You down the rest of the can anyway, then
crush it against the table and toss it. It twinkles like gold foil as it arcs,
and strikes the dusty pull-chain bulb that dangles just low enough from the
center beam to hit your head on. It drops like a dead bug into the can below.

 

The light, now swinging in lazy circles, flashes the basement with a ballet of
disjointed shadows. You can’t help being a little proud of yourself.

 

“Nice shot.”

 

Kim, who had been born in Seoul but emigrated before he could remember it, still
has every ounce of the accent one would expect. He’s also a god at rhythm games,
a resourceful mathematician, and would be a perfect model of the stereotype if
he’d been a bit more conscientious.

 

But you’d met him in detention on the third week of your Freshman year of High
School. Kim had been late every single day of those three weeks, and then was
late to detention, too. You had been there because you’d fought with the
principal when he accused you of lying about the liquor in your locker being for
the rocket project in your physics class. Your parents had cleared it up, but
not before you called him an asshole. You should probably have made a water
rocket like everybody else, or at least used kerosene, but you’d wanted to make
a good impression.

 

Kim had sat down beside you because of the SETI logo on your shirt. He’d wanted
to talk about Roswell and Levelland; you had never been the conspiracy type, and
had hoped to talk astronomy.

 

By the second hour you had found yourself admitting that flying saucers probably
\_were \_aerodynamically sound, and by the time the four-hour period ended, your
differences seemed all but reconciled. You’d walked home together, and it turned
out the two of you lived just a mile apart. Easy biking distance.

 

You had a few acres of property under dark skies, and parents who would overlook
moderate explosions and small fires if it meant their son had a friend. Kim had
a badass telescope, a Commodore 64, and a pretty generous allowance.

 

That had been four years ago.

 

“So, you hear from that girl yet?”

 

You sigh and spin your chair a quarter turn to face him, flipping the right ear
cuff of your headset aside and pinning the left with your off palm.

 

“She’ll be here.”

 

You’re not sure you actually believe that. Kim snorts disapprovingly. Evidently
he doesn’t either.

 

“Come on man, you know there’s no girls on radio. It’s all just old guys and
greasy nerds like us.”

 

He leans back in his chair and flips a pizza roll into his mouth to drive the
point home.

 

He’s probably right. But you’d spent your life thinking that kind of thing, and
where had it gotten you? A basement with a big-ass HAM radio, a SNES, and an
Amiga when Kim brought it around. Okay, maybe you hadn’t done so bad for
yourself after all, but your imagination, while pretty good, only gets you so
far. Playboy helps, but certainly the real thing is better, right?

 

You legitimately aren’t sure.

 

Definitely kind of lonely though, and you’re about through with that.

 

You crack your knuckles and turn back to your radio equipment, double checking
the frequency and opening up the filter a little. You clear your throat and
prepare your best radio voice, which sounds as much like Gene Kranz as you can
manage without aging a few decades and chain smoking a mountain of cigarettes.
You think it’s pretty good, but Kim gives you shit for it.

 

“QST, this is S5KSC, QSX 7000 to 7300 kHz.”

 

You’ve had your license for a few years, and you’re pretty used to the
terminology now. You’d called out into the static, and told anyone who might be
listening that you were monitoring the frequency band between 7.0 and 7.3
megahertz. S5KSC was your callsign. Your first vanity callsign. It stood for
“Saturn V, Kennedy Space Center.” You were pretty proud of that.

 

But static. Nothing replies save a few interference squeals.

 

You let a minute go by, tapping the rhythm of Toto’s “Africa” into your desk
with an index finger.

 

“QST, this is S5KSC, QSX 7000 to 7300 kHz. Is anyone out there?”

 

Fucking nothing.

 

So you flip an ear cuff off again and kick your chair back around to face Kim,
who shakes his head in half-mocked pity and turns his own radio back up.

 

\_ ...John only became interested in the subject himself seven years ago, after
talking with an airforce pilot who was stationed at Bentwaters Air Force Base
near London, England, where three small aliens were photographed by the Air
Force --actually photographed by the Air Force-- walking up to Wing Commander
General Gordon Williams. Lear’s extensive worldwide civilian, military, and
intelligence contacts have made it easier for him to penetrate the secrecy
surrounding the subject of UFO’s. Then, in 1988 John became acquainted with a
government scientist who worked at area S-4, part of the super secret Area
51...\_

 

The signal fades out and into a protracted squeal that howls over static and
broken sentences. Kim curses under his breath, and rubs at an eye with the back
of his right hand while his left fiddles with dials. You mimic his earlier
bullshit head shake.

 

“No Art tonight, huh? Reckon it’s the aliens interfering? I’d be pissed if \_I
\_were them.”

 

Kim had listened to Art Bell obsessively ever since he came on the air. It
didn’t help you lived most of the country away from Coast to Coast Radio’s
station, and he’d always ask to use your equipment.

 

“It’s too damn cloudy,” Kim mutters, not bothering to hide the disappointment in
his voice, “Fuck, they were going to talk about Area 51, too. And from John
Lear. You heard ‘em, he’s a defense guy or something. Knows what he’s talking
about. There could be crazy shit going on there; \_they might actually blow it
wide open_. Could you imagine?”

 

You pretend you don’t like the idea as much as you do.

 

“It’s nothing, man. It’s always nothing. When we finally make contact with
someone, it’ll be a radio array that does it. If we were already workin’ with
‘em, the Wall would have come down \_ages \_ago.”

 

“Maybe Russia was \_part of it_. Without the USSR we might finally get some real
information, now that they don’t have anyone to hide it from. Hell, that could
be \_tonight_. I could \_miss \_it. Fucking weather.”

 

“It’s winter, at night, and you can’t listen out 1200 miles just because there’s
a little weather?”

 

Kim hauls himself up onto a couch under an open window and fiddles with the
antenna he’d routed through it. An icy draft falls in and washes across across
the floor, carrying a few snowflakes in its wake.

 

He shuts the door again, being particularly delicate with the wires he fed
through the snow seal.

 

“Not with this piece of shit.”

 

He looks your radio stack up and down like a Playboy centerfold.

 

“Yeah, well maybe you shouldn’t have spent all your money on that big-ass
computer. You don’t even do video production.”

 

“Amiga 3000,” Kim corrects, “you drooled over it as much as I did.”

 

“Yeah, then I bought an SNES for a tenth the price. And a car.”

 

Your left ear cup crackles suddenly. You whirl back to the controls.

 

“Hold up, I might have something.”

 

Kim groans.

 

“You don’t buy\_ John Lear \_telling you about the shit that goes on at Area 51,
but you think you’re going to get laid over that thing?”

 

Laid? You hadn’t even thought that far yet.

 

“I ‘dunno, man. Shut up. I’ve got to listen.”

 

You shift the other ear cup back on and wait. Nothing but hiss and quiet
squeals.

 

“QST, this is S5KSC, QSX 7000 to 7300 kHz. G7XRI, you out there?”

 

Your Gene Kranz voice gets a little transparent toward the end. You clear your
throat again. Static.

 

“Someone was fucking with you. Like that blonde chick who said she wanted to
date me sophomore year. Remember her?”

 

You did, and would have been lying to claim you hadn’t been thinking the same.
You elect to do that anyway.

 

“She’s not like that. You’ll see.”

 

“Dude, you barely talked to her. Said you couldn’t keep the signal. That you
just got a few words across about when you were going to try to meet again.
Hell, I bet you didn’t even get that far. I’m telling you, someone’s fucking
with you.”

 

Kim props his feet up on the desk and toys with his radio dial some more. Art
Bell’s voice leaks through the static again.

 

\_...toward Las Vegas, I have now seen three different times, what I--, I’m not
sure what it was, John. It looked on the one hand a little bit like a falling
star. Been seeing falling stars all night. And this was not, uh, typical of a
falling star. It was more like... --I’d have described as a green fireball,
trailing fire behind it. In a trajectory, uh, across the sky. It wasn’t small.
It wasn’t like a typical falling star that we’ve all seen for years, it was--
And I’ll tell you why I’m mentioning this, John....\_

 

Your headphones murmur, and you whirl again and speak with slow deliberation.

 

“QST, this is S5KSC QSX 7000 to 7300 kHz. Is anyone out there? Have you any news
of G7XRI? MSG to QSP G7XRI.”

 

Maybe you can at least get someone to relay a message for you.

 

Static. Then a squeal, a pop, and a chirp of electrical warble. Your heart skips
a beat or two.

 

“This is, uh, G7XRI. QRZ? QRU? ”

 

Who are you? Do you have something for me?

 

It’s a man’s voice. Gruff, at that; maybe annoyed. You can’t help flinching.

 

This can’t be right. Maybe it hadn’t been quite like you said it had, but you
had talked to her. A girl. At least you’d heard her voice.

 

“S5KSC. Last QSO 12/2, 0200 hours.”

 

We last conversed on December second at two in the morning.

 

“S5KSC, you have the wrong station.”

 

The transmission pops back into static. Kim chuckles, still trying to clean his
signal up a little more.

 

“I told you. Maybe you dreamed it.”

 

He tosses up another pizza roll and catches it like a dolphin.

 

You hadn’t fucking dreamed it. It had been 2:00 AM on the second of December.
You’d been drinking a Mountain Dew. You tell him as much.

 

In his defense, you had less to go on than you’d made out. You hadn’t actually
spoken with anyone. Talked, yes, but not spoken. You’d heard her voice, but only
gibberish. Technically you hadn’t arranged tonight’s meeting either, rather
she’d given you a puzzle, and you’d solved it.

 

But she wasn’t bullshitting you. She couldn’t have been. There was too much work
behind all of it. You don’t put together numerical ciphers to fuck with a kid in
his basement. There had to be something to this, but all that seemed to come was
static.

 

You flip an ear cuff off again and lean back, propping your feet up on the desk
and crossing them. Your stomach complains a little.

 

“Toss me a pizza roll, will ‘ya?”

 

“Thought you said we didn’t need that third box. Told you it was going to be a
long night.”

 

“Yeah, yeah; I’ll toss you a five, okay?”

 

The pastry, still steaming from the microwave, sails breezily through the air
and breaks in half across your index finger as you go to catch it. You swallow
the halves in sequence, and lick your fingers. You turn to Kim, trying your best
to not to agonize over the radio.

 

“So, have they told us when the invasion starts?”

 

“Just about Area 51. They reverse engineer propulsion systems there apparently.
A bunch of people say they saw it. Interesting shit; might explain the black
triangle last Summer.”

 

You definitely could have done with an explanation for the black triangle last
Summer. The two of you had been smoking on a hill overlooking town, backed up
against a stand of trees. It had drifted past you as silent as the clouds, seams
in its skin pulsing blue and purple. You tried to tell yourself it was something
in the smoke. That it had been laced or some shit. But really, you knew that
wasn’t so.

 

“Think that could really be what it was?”

 

“What, you don’t think the government is hiding shit from us? They \_still\_
claim Area 51 doesn’t exist; we’ve got all the pictures of that you could want.”

 

“Oh, I figure they’re hiding plenty of shit. Just don’t have enough faith in
them to bet it’s anything that cool.”

 

Frankly you’re not sure if you’d rather it be a black project or outright alien.

 

“What do you figure they hide then?”

 

“Same as any group of people. Shady dealings, backroom reciprocity, and a lot
more sex than anyone cares to consider. I like your shadow government better
though; they have much better taste. If that triangle really was something, I
bet it would have been pretty sexy up close.”

 

“What do you mean \_if? \_You saw it same as I did.”

 

You shrug.

 

“I don’t fucking know what to make of it. If they’re here, why don’t they talk?”

 

The radio buzzes again, and a voice emerges from a whine of interference. You
recognize it this time.

 

“G-7-X-R-I.”

 

It’s slow and jagged speech, and would have sounded nearly robotic if it weren’t
for the hesitation that seemed to cling to the syllables. It’s dense but
intelligible, and unmistakably female. Just like before. Your blood ices. You
motion to Kim frantically.

 

“I fucking told you. Check this out.”

 

Kim pushes off his desk with a scuffed tennis shoe and rolls lazily over.

 

“Is she hot?”

 

That question probably shouldn’t have taken you off guard.

 

“I don’t know!”

 

You definitely hope so.

 

“Does she \_sound \_hot?”

 

“What does that even mean?”

 

The radio crackles again.

 

“G-7-X-R-I Q-S-T, Anyone On Air? M-S-G to QS... P to S-5-K-S-C.”

 

It’s as if she’s reading the words off an eye chart, but what do you care? Your
composure shatters. You slap the transmit key.

 

“Yeah! yeah, I’m here.”

 

Gene Kranz is nowhere to be found. You probably sounded like a twelve-year-old,
but it would have to do.

 

“G-7-X-R-I, QR...X?”

 

The words trail off, and then back in again.

 

“Z. QRZ?”

 

You hadn’t identified yourself. What an idiot! You panic a second but claw a
little composure back. At least she’s having trouble with the codes. Hell, she
seems to struggle even more with the words in between. Maybe she’s as in over
her head as you are.

 

You clear your throat a third time.

 

“This is S5KSC. QSO 12/2 at 0200 hours. You have a QSP for me?”

 

Last conversation, yadda yadda, and did she have a message for you?

 

You’d sounded pretty cool saying it too.

 

“S-5-K-S-C.”

 

It’s slow, but you swear she sounds excited. Must not be a native speaker, but
you could get past that, right? Maybe she’s Japanese. Accent isn’t quite right,
but it’s okay to hope, right?

 

“Q - R - K?”

 

“I read you loud and clear G7X, solid 5.”

 

That, you’d sounded good saying. Somehow, across whatever space and time, you
can almost feel her grin. Kim elbows you.

 

“I’ll be damned; she sounds pretty cute.”

 

You stare him down in response and make sure you hadn’t been transmitting for
that. You hadn’t.

 

It’s quiet a while; the more you think about it the more right he seems to be.
You drum your fingers some more, picking up \_Smells like Teen Spirit\_ this
time.

 

The headphones pop again, and you refocus.

 

“Hello, childr-- --of Earth.”

 

It’s a different voice. A male child. It sounds like she’s cut it to hell, but
you’ve seen far too much Cosmos not to recognize it immediately. The English
greeting from the Golden Record.

 

Your mental image of her jumps off the scale. This is an asian exchange student
space geek. You’re totally sure of it. Your little slice of anime is about to
become real.

 

“Uh, hi,” you say, suddenly very thankful that Gene Kranz is alive, and thus not
rolling in his grave. But shit, you’ve got to do better than “hi”. You’ve got to
show her you know what she’s on about.

 

“Track 1, dumbass. Quote track 1.”

 

For the first time that night you’re glad Kim is there.

 

“I send greetings on behalf of the people of our planet.”

 

He gives you a thumbs up and pushes himself back across the room.

 

The signal goes dead, then pops back to life, sounding flatter and duller.

 

“M - S - G”.

 

Another pop in the signal. You reach for a notepad but find it missing. Somehow,
in that second of panic, you catch it when Kim throws it to you. Then comes a
flurry of beeps:

 

\_.-..-.--..--------------\_

 

Shit, if it’s morse, it doesn’t say anything. You must have screwed it up; that
or she’s testing you somehow. Or what if this is some kind of secret spy shit,
and you just happened to answer the challenge question right? Your blood runs
cold.

 

She doesn’t give you time to ponder the question.

 

\_.----\_

 

\_-------------------.--..----..--.\_

 

\_.----.-..----------------------------------\_

 

Your heart’s racing. Kim has pushed himself back over and is staring at the
notepad, face flushed.

 

“Dude. Do you think this might be, like, some--”

 

You aren’t transmitting, but hide the microphone in your hands just in case.

 

“_Wargames\_ shit, yeah,” you agree.

 

“Think it might have something to do with what Lear’s talking about? Like
they’re ‘gonna try to cover it up or something?”

 

The thought sends a chill down your spine.

 

“I don’t know! I doubt it.”

 

You’re not sure you actually doubt it.

 

“You going to keep talking to her?”

 

For what may have been the first time in your life, you’d been too wrapt to
consider the risks. You still can’t quite make sense of them. The words you find
yourself saying don’t seem to reflect the feeling in your gut.

 

“We’ve got the message either way. We’re a loose end whether we keep going or
not. I want to get to the bottom of it.”

 

Holy shit, you’d never thought you’d say something that cool, like, ever. Kim’s
face lights up.

 

“Keep her on the air. This could be big.”

 

You turn back just in time.

 

“Q - T - H?”

 

Location. Shit, should you tell her? Should you lie? You look to Kim but he’s
focused on the code. You ignore the pit in your stomach and do your best to
reason through it. You can still feign ignorance. Be honest. Play it cool.
You’re just a high school senior talking to some Asian chick. Hell, that’s
probably still what’s really going on, right? Your imagination is getting the
better of you, that’s all.

 

Right?

 

“Sandusky, in a basement under five feet of snow. You?”

 

Static for a second.

 

“Q - T - H?”

 

“Sandusky. How do you read G7X?”

 

“5, S - 5 - K. Q - T - H?”

 

Your stomach churns, adrenaline tickling the lining. You’re pretty sure you know
what she wants, and you’re pretty sure you shouldn’t give it to her. You find
yourself starting anyway.

 

“1.4489° North, 82.7080° West. You?”

 

You put a little more emphasis on the question at the end this time. The
transmission hiccups as if a DJ shuffled the record.

 

“Earth,” it rings plaintively, in the voice of the boy from the record.

 

Then it pops back again.

 

\_-..---.. / --.----- / -...-.-. / --.----- / -...--.. / -..-.... / -..-...-\_

 

You’re really starting to have some doubts about the exchange student theory.

 

\#

 

The radio has been dead for a few minutes.

 

You acknowledged her transmission, but no reply came. Earlier that evening, the
silence would have had you biting your nails, but now you’re thankful for the
respite. You have work to do.

 

Kim is sitting beside you now, taking generous swigs from a coke can as he
fiddles with the dots and lines scribbled on your notebook. Art Bell drones in
the background, forgotten.

 

You've each tried a few solutions, but nothing that went anywhere. Through a
haze of caffeine, taurine, and fatigue, one thing is clear:

 

It’s not Morse.

 

None of it is Morse, not straight up.

 

It’s got to be some kind of cipher.

 

You suppose you should have known she wouldn’t make it easy. Right now the only
lead you have is the second line of the message: \\

\_ \_.----

 

The number one.

 

You’ve looked that up, down, and sideways, but it doesn’t seem to make any
goddamn sense.

 

The swinging light has long since stilled, and the dancing monsters returned to
sleep in the shadows of dusty computers and overstuffed file organizers. Through
the floorboards above drips the gong of the pendulum clock in your hallway.

 

One in the morning.

 

You stretch, shake your head, and crack another coke. It’s a damn good thing
you’re on Christmas break; this is shaping up to be a long night. The only C
you’d ever gotten in High School you’d gotten on a math quiz after a night like
this. They don’t generally send you to space if you get Cs.

 

Kim inhales suddenly and raises an index finger, but it wilts before he can say
anything.

 

If Kim can’t get it, you don’t hold out much hope that you can. But you have to
try anyway.

 

No, a little voice reminds you.

 

\_Do or do not, there is no try.\_

 

You were about to land your perfect Asian girl, and the two of you were going to
go to MIT together and get jobs at JPL.

 

Or maybe you were about break a government conspiracy wide open, and be the man
to tell the world that there is nothing between us and heaven, and that the
stars are ours for the taking.

 

You could do this. You didn’t come this far to drop the X-Wing. You were smart,
right?

 

Your teachers said you were smart. Your parents said you were smart. A few
colleges had even started courting you, though none of them were MIT, and you
hadn’t much intention of giving them the time of day.

 

You could figure this out. No way in hell you were just going to slink off and
play some \_Starfox_, as good an idea as that sounded.

 

Suddenly the radio shrieks like a fox: that sound they make late at night in the
woods, particularly when you’re trying your hardest not to worry about monsters.
You leap to your feet and jog back over, crashing into the desk a little as you
snatch at the headphones.

 

Nothing but pops and squeals.

 

You call into the static, but it goes unheeded.

 

It’s got to be the antenna.

 

What fucking timing. No wonder you stopped hearing her. Better than her just
leaving you hanging, you suppose, but if you lost her then, who the hell knew
when you might get another shot at it? If the Asian exchange student theory was
sound, then you’d only get another if you were lucky.

 

But if it wasn’t sound...,

 

If it was \_Wargames\_ shit, or any of the more exotic ideas starting to
condense in your imagination...

 

...Then this was probably the only shot you’d ever get.

 

The next few minutes could be the difference between a life-altering, hell, a
world-shattering revelation, and a fun little anecdote to tell at parties. You
don’t go to many of those anyway.

 

You throw the headset back down and scramble for the window over the couch. Kim
rolls somewhat more hurriedly over as you fight with the window latch

 

“Told you the weather was getting bad. Think the antenna blew off?”

 

There’s actually some urgency behind his voice for once.

 

“Yeah, maybe. Just get up here and help me, will ‘ya?”

 

You manage to knock the window free again, haul yourself up from the basement,
and flop into the snow like a seal.

 

It doesn’t feel like much at first, then it starts to melt against your skin.
Tendrils of cold work their way into you, stinging like jellyfish tentacles.
Your old, pizza stained t-shirt is soaked by the time you haul yourself to your
feet, though it wasn’t doing you much good anyway. Your socks follow in short
order.

 

The weather had grown a lot worse over the course of the night. Despite the
darkness, you can make out the distended, iron bellies of clouds rolling
overhead, their matted plumes glowing an otherworldly amber in the lights of the
city below.

 

A fast, ghostly wind whistles in the eves. It’s almost like being on Venus, you
think. A very cold Venus. Given what happened to Pioneer and the Venera
missions, you’re pretty sure it’s as close to Venus as you care to get.

 

A chain of curses rings out somewhere behind you as Kim hauls himself up, and
into a few feet of lake effect snow.

 

“This had better be aliens, or she better be \_really\_ hot,” he shivers.

 

You swear and turn to face the house.

 

An extendable ladder runs up two stories from the basement window to the roof,
cables coiled up the right side like a holiday garland and steps frozen like
fish in a grocery store.

 

You hurry up and throw yourself at it.

 

Usually when you fucked up and missed something great, it’s because you thought
twice. Or five or six times, or more. This time you’re not going to give
yourself the chance.

 

The ground falls away beneath you, your footholds precarious but ardent, your
hands searing on the icy metal until it feels like you’re grabbing stovetops.
Up, hand over hand, rung by rung. The ladder jostles and flexes in the wind and
under your weight. Usually that gives you pause, but right now you barely
notice.

 

You clamber onto the roof, kicking some snow aside and sheltering your face in
the crook of your arm. The antenna is on the near side of the roof, but doesn’t
look very close to you. The web-like structure bows and dances in the wind,
weighed down by a coating of ice that makes it glitter in the warm, pastel
shades of the Christmas lights hanging from the eaves.

 

It’s almost pretty, but a precarious step refocuses your attention. Kick away
the snow. Step. Repeat. Fortunately the roof is mostly dry underneath, and the
slant angle not quite so severe as it appears.

 

You peer over the edge and call out to Kim.

 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
“The connections look good down there?”
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

 

“Looks pretty good. What have you got up there?”

 

“An ice age. ‘Gonna be an adventure.”

 

“Just remember man, this could be it. This could be the big one!”

 

“Yeah, well why don’t you climb up here and help me?”

 

“I’m not climbing that fucking thing in this weather.”

 

Kim may or may not also be a little scared of heights. He claims he isn’t, but
you’re pretty sure he’s full of it, and make sure to tell him that every time
you find yourselves somewhere with a view.

 

“Even to break the alien secret wide open? Just think, it could be you on Coast
to Coast after Lear. You could be the guy to break the news to everyone.”

 

“Fuck, man. Alright. But this had better be about aliens. The chick isn’t going
to cut it, especially if it’s you she’s interested in.”

 

The ladder starts to shake and shimmy again as he climbs. You turn back to the
antenna. The ice problem is a little worse up close, which is probably good
because at least it provides a measure of certainty. From each wire dangles a
forest of icicles, each rooted in thick patches of rime.

 

A good shaking shatters a lot of the crystals. About half the icicles fall; the
rime splits but it doesn’t go anywhere. You set to scraping it with a nail.

 

It’s slow work, but you’re making progress. Your hands have already numbed to a
dull ache. It can’t be more than 20 degrees, and humid at that. You’re shivering
like one of those little designer dogs. If only you’d brought a knife.

 

You can’t have more than a few minutes on the frostbite front. Briefly you
remember how foolish and idiotic this idea is, but you remind yourself that
caution doesn’t ever seem to get you anywhere.

 

\_We choose to de-ice the antenna,\_

 

\_and meet the girl,\_

 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_and do the other things...\_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

 

\_not because they are easy,\_

 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_but because they are hard!\_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

 

Presently the ladder knocks against the roof under Kim’s weight. You’re looking
forward to his help.

 

The wind is building still further, and the clouds seem to draw nearer as you
work. Thunder rocks the sky in the middle distance and rolls by like a freight
train. Wire by wire you scrape, the numbness working its way up your arms like
creeping ivy.

 

Come on, you’re halfway there. Kim will be helping in a second. You can do this.
You’ve got to talk to her. This could be it.

 

A sharper boom cracks overhead, and then another roll of thunder follows. You’re
not sure about that sharp one. It didn’t sound quite right, not like thunder.
The back of your mind’s screaming at you what it sounded like:

 

A sonic boom.

 

You’re doing your best not to listen and scraping as fast as you can.

 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Snow gathers in your hair and soaks it to the scalp. Keep working. Scrape.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Scrape. Scrape.

 

It’s getting a little easier.

 

You can see better now.

 

There’s more light. It’s soft, but it’s there. A very pale blue, not like the
christmas lights. Did the clouds seriously part? You’re not sure that should be
possible.

 

You look over your shoulder, and your heart just about fucking quits.

 

The amber glow from the clouds is all but gone, blocked by the span of a great
black triangle.

 

No more than fifty feet away, it slides by with the easy grace of a reef shark,
the surface of its wings and leading and trailing edges seeming to flex and
boil, playing with the wind the way a seagull’s feathers do.

 

You can’t bring yourself to breathe or move or think.

 

It’s all real.

 

Kim had been right all along.

 

This has to be a fucking dream, but the cold bites at your eyes and nose like a
cobra, and you know it isn’t.

 

If you hadn’t been so sure, you might have thrown yourself off the roof in hopes
of waking.

 

It slides overhead and banks, beginning to circle the roof with slow
deliberation. Its skin pulses with veins of blue. A warm-looking blue. Blue like
tropical water. It seems almost close enough to touch.

 

A sense of calm settles over you like a lead blanket. You’re drawn in.

 

It’s like sleepwalking. You can’t stop. You can’t think. You crane your neck.
You step. You reach out to it. It’s beautiful.

 

Then the snow gives way, and the spell shatters.

 

You’re lying supine in the snow, staring at a bleak, violent sky. Overhead the
thunder rolls again, and then it fades. From somewhere in the distance echoes
the report of a sonic boom.

 

So that’s a no on the exchange student, then?

 

\#

 

You and Kim regroup inside, hurriedly toweling dry and backing up against the
water heater with your notepad.

 

Kim had seen it, too. He didn’t get as good a look as you did, but he’d seen it.
He’d also fallen, it turns out. What’s weird is neither of you seem to be hurt
at all. There’s a lot of snow on the ground, but not that much. He says he
doesn’t really remember falling, just being on the ground. You don’t either.

 

But it’s not worth pondering now. You’re almost certain you know what’s missing.

 

It makes sense suddenly, as if that thing told you while you were in the trance.
It was so obvious. Why hadn’t you thought of it? All that talk about the record,
and it had never occurred to you.

 

“Kim, what if it’s not a cipher.”

 

“What do you mean 'not a cipher'? You seeing something there I don’t?”

 

“What if it’s binary?”

 

Kim raises an eyebrow, but after what you just saw you’re not sure you can take
the very idea of skepticism seriously anymore.

 

“That doesn’t look like binary to me. I guess \_maybe\_ the last, but not the
others.”

 

He swirls his coke like it’s whiskey on the rocks.

 

“No dude, I think I’ve seen the others before. I think I might know where
they’re from.”

 

The heat’s nice, but you’ve got work to do. You peel yourself away from the
water heater and rip a poster off the wall behind the radio. The record cover.

 

Falling back against the water heater, you spread it on your lap under the
notebook. The timing for the video scan. Check. The record speed codes. Check.
She wasn’t trying to tell you anything with those codes. Except the last one.

 

That was nowhere on the record. She was just trying to tell you it was in
binary.

 

Kim doesn’t seem to take that as quite the revelation you do, but he plays
along. You plot out the last message, the one that had come just a little before
the Encounter.

 

\_C U SOON\_

 

Your blood runs so cold you stop shivering.

 

You shuffle back to the radio. The headphones are happily chirping away. You’re
more than a little scared to pick them up. But hesitation never got you
anywhere.

 

On they go. Three transmissions are looping patiently and consistently.

 

\_.-.-..-./..-...../.-.-.-.-/..-...../.-..----/.-..-.--/....-.-./..--.-../..--...-/--....-./-.--..../..--...-/..--.--./..-..---/..--.-.-/..--..-./..-.---./..--.--./..-...-./..-...../.-..---./..-...../..---.../..--...-/--....-./-.--..../..--..--/..--..--/..-..---/..--..-./..--...-/..-.---./..--.--./..-...-./..-...../.-.-.---/..-.---./..-...../..--...-/..--..-./..-.----/..--...-/..--.-.-/..-...../.-....../..-...../..--..-./..--.-../..--..../..--..../..-.---./..-...../.-....--/..-...../.-.-.-.-/..-.---./....-.-./.-...-../.--.----/.--.---./..-..---/.---.-../..-...../.--..-../.--..-.-/.--.--../.--....-/.----..-/..---.--/..-...../.--.----/.---..../.--..-.-/.---..-./.--....-/.---.-../.--.----/.---..-./.---..--/..-...../.--....-/.---..-./.--..-.-/..-...../.---..--/.---.-../.--....-/.--.---./.--..-../.--.-..-/.--.---./.--..---/..-...../.--...-./.----..-/..-.---./..-...../.-...---/.--.----/.--.----/.--..-../..-...../.---.---/.--.-..-/.--.--../.--.--../..-...../.---.-../.--.----/..-...../.--.--.-/.--..-.-/.--.---./..-.---./....-.-.\_

 

You finish writing them down, and in the space of a minute the radio goes dead.
School or not, you’re pretty sure it’s time for some goddamn sleep.

 

\#

 

\_R U OK\_

 

\_41°16'52.6" N 81°33'21.6" W. 12/15 \@ 2400. C U.\_

 

\_Don't delay; operators are standing by. Good will to men.\_

 

There were no two ways about this, were there? No pretending that it hadn’t
happened, or had at least been a coincidence, even if it’s starting to feel like
it had all been a dream. The message had been clear as day. You just wish she
would have answered your questions about whether that second line was an offer
or an order.

 

It’s the 14th now. You haven’t had any contact with G7X since the twelfth. Kim
has been fucking beside himself for the past few days, and you can tell it’s
everything he can do to keep quiet. You’ve been pretty high-strung too, but
telling people hasn’t been at the top of your list. There’s only one question on
your mind:

 

Should you go?

 

It was almost like that time last year when a senior girl asked you to the prom.
You’d been pretty sure it was a trick, like what that one girl pulled on Kim.
You’d agonized over it for weeks. Your father had said to go. Your mother had
said to go. They’d both given very good, compelling reasons.

 

But you hadn’t.

 

And next week she’d come to school crying, wondering why the hell you’d stood
her up like that.

 

You’d tried to explain, but that had been worth about as much as you would
expect. In retrospect you should have lied and said you got really sick suddenly
or something. But you know how this story goes. You beat yourself up over it
every couple of days.

 

This is kind of like that, you suppose. Only so, so, so much worse.

 

Drive an hour through awful weather to make what might be humanity’s first
formal contact with alien life, or maybe you’ll just be:

 

\_Stood up?\_

 

\_Atomized?\_

 

\_Violated with a probe?\_

 

\_Pressed into some kind of servitude?\_

 

Hell, maybe it’s like Alien, and she just wants to lay eggs in your chest. Just
like the fucking prom, right?

 

Whoever or whatever G7X is, she seems to have made it her mission to test your
“hesitation never got me anywhere” resolve to its absolute outer limits.

 

Every day you mull it over, and night is even worse. You’ve slept about half
what you should in the last two days. You’d even broken down and told your
parents all about it. If someone would just tell you not to go, you could put
together how you were going to avoid it.

 

The trouble was your parents probably thought your story about “going to meet
some weird UFO chick” was code for “go smoke weed in the woods with friends, do
teenager shit, and get into trouble.

 

They thought it would be good for you. Go fucking figure.

 

It doesn’t help that Kim has been practically living at your place. He’s made
his position pretty clear:

 

\_He needs to know if what he saw that night was real.\_

 

\_If so, he needs to face whatever creatures these are.\_

 

\_And since he spent all his money on the Amiga,\_

 

\_He needs you to drive him.\_

 

So all that had landed you here: behind the wheel of your 1979 Saab 900
hatchback, 10 miles out of Cuyahoga Valley National Park, lodged in the third
snowdrift of the night.

 

The clock on the dash ticks over 11:15 P.M. as you throw it back into reverse
and try one last time to set yourself free without dragging your sorry ass back
into the snow. By sheer force of will you manage to snag a little traction and
haul yourself back onto the road.

 

It’s not snowing right now, but the sky is dark and brooding. The wind whisks
thin ripples of blowing snow across the roadway, throttling the glow of your
headlights until it seems they’re shining through a few layers of wax paper.
“Man on the Moon” is playing low over the radio, cutting in and out here and
there. That should probably strike you a little uncanny, but you barely notice
it given they play it so damn often. The heater is chugging, but it manages to
keep up. About half the directional louvers are broken; fortunately they’re
broken in largely useful directions.

 

The drive has been quiet, and surprisingly pensive for how much of a hassle it’s
been. Kim was excited as hell in the beginning and frankly you’d been thankful
for that, but once the first few miles rolled by, he started getting quiet.
Reality setting in, you guess. He’d never been very good at comprehending the
weight of situations until he was in them. Which was why he did stupid things
like buy Amiga 3000s.

 

But you’d come this far, and the bravado from the roof antenna escapade is
coming back to you little-by-little:

 

\_...and MEET THE GIRL,\_

 

\_and do the other things,\_

 

\_Not because they are easy,\_

 

\_But because they are HARD.\_

 

Hard probably isn’t the right word for exactly what this is, but you’ll take
your inspiration where you can get it. There is no going back now; you’ve come
much too far for that. If you didn’t get yourself killed just driving out here,
what were the odds that she would do it? Besides, she’d asked if you were okay
after the fall. That was reassuring, wasn’t it?

 

Not as much as you’d like.

 

But there was the sign for the park, lit like a spectre in your high-beams. You
take a deep breath and make a left.

 

The gates are shut of course, so you park your car in the most secluded spot you
can find, zip up your windbreaker, and turn the key as if pulling a pin from a
grenade. The engine shudders to a stop. You pop the door open and peel yourself
from the crappy, torn leather of the driver’s seat. The cold greets you like
your Aunt Jenny on Christmas.

 

You’ve been to Cuyahoga Valley National Park before. It’s been a while, a few
years maybe, but not all that long. You used to go all the time as a kid, and
while your interest had waned a little in high school, you still liked the place
and had a lot of happy memories there. You know it pretty well, you think, but
it is something of a different place in the winter, especially at night.

 

The trees, full and green in summer and vibrant in fall, tower over you stark,
black, and leafless, gnarled roots digging into the snow like cats’ claws. The
trails meander through hills and valleys painted ghostly white with snow, their
views desolate and their borders blurred.

 

Monsters creep into your head as you walk, teasing your imagination with the
frozen zombies of fallen soldiers. They rise from shallow graves in deep,
snowbound trenches to shuffle about, fending the cold away with scarves of
razorwire. This isn’t a horror movie and you aren’t a coward, but never before
have you wished so heavily that you were into guns at least ten percent as much
as you were into rockets. Your father owned a beautiful Smith and Wesson in
.357. You’d only fired it a few times, but goddamn you’d like to have it now.

 

But all you have is a backpack full of floppy disks and CDs that Kim had
suggested you bring. Encyclopedias and media and the like. A good idea,
certainly, but they weren’t going to do you any good if things went south.

 

So you trudge on, thumb hooked around your waist, pretending you’ve got a gun
there.

 

Kim, who’s walking beside you, is staying just as quiet as you are. His hands
are thrust in the pockets of his pale blue windbreaker and his head bent down
against the wind, eyes staring at his black moon boots as he trudges.

 

The back of your mind toys with the idea of letting him get ahead awhile, then
hurling a snowball at him. Might ease the tension a little. You try to fall
behind him, but he slows down with you.

 

You slide your jacket sleeve back a little and check the cheap digital watch on
your wrist:

 

11:45 P.M.

 

She’d said not to be late. You’ve got a quarter mile yet.

 

You don’t have a GPS. Kim’s family might be wealthy, but he was never outdoorsy
enough to try to arrange that. Close as you can tell though, the coordinates
lead you to a basin in the rock.

 

You’ve been here before. A rim of shale extends a foot or so from the wall of
the depression, and in the summer channels a narrow creek into a fine, misty
waterfall. That’s all frozen now, the water locked halfway to the little pool
below, as if time itself had stopped when the snow came. It glows with the eerie
still-life of a model train set, water cast in glue, glitter, and blue food
coloring.

 

It’s beautiful in the Summer. You used to spend long hours here reading and
catching little frogs. You didn’t bring a book though, and there’s no sound save
the faint rush of wind in the trees.

 

Skinwalkers are a Navajo thing. The Navajo didn’t live here, right? You try to
think back to your U.S. history class last year. You don’t think so. This is
Shawnee territory, if you remember correctly. You’re pretty sure they don’t have
Skinwalkers.

 

That doesn’t make you feel as much better as you hoped it would.

 

\_11:52.\_

 

The waiting is already painful. Kim is pacing. Before long so are you.

 

You pace to stop the shaking. It’s because of the cold, right?

 

Yeah, that’s part of it, but you know that’s not the whole truth.

 

\_11:55.\_

 

Kim is crouched under the overhang. He’s got a faraway look in his eye, and is
drumming his fingers on his knee to the Super Mario Brothers tune. You join him
reluctantly, and the two of you watch the fog of your breath crystalize on the
ice of the frozen waterfall.

 

This could really be it, you remind him, as much for your own sake as for his.

 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_11:58.\_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

 

Your teeth are chattering, which is good, because focusing on being cold is
better than focusing on your watch.

 

You’re still counting seconds with taps of your boot though. 120 of those
fuckers left. Probably less now. You haven’t heard a sonic boom, and that’s
making you nervous.

 

At first you’d thought the “stood up” option might be the best outcome here, but
the more you thought about that the less you liked it. If something went down,
you knew what was happening. If she was a no-show, then it was like that spider
you see on the bathroom wall, and then look back and it’s gone. The last thing
you wanted this situation to become was a Spider You Couldn’t See.

 

\_12:02\_

 

Sheer anxiety led you to forget your watch awhile. Still no sonic boom, still no
pale blue light. Still no G7X. She’d said not to be late; did that mean you
could go? Where would you meet again? When? Would you ever? Was it over?

 

\_12:06\_

 

You’re actually a little disappointed. Maybe even hurt. You’d come all this way
in good faith. You’d come for answers. And now what? What would happen next?
Would anything come of it? You couldn’t know!

 

Was it all a trick? Had it been CIA shit after all?

 

They’d tricked you into coming out here, and now they were going to throw you
into the back of a van! You’d never see your family again!

 

Shit, what if that was really it?

 

You can’t wait any longer. It doesn’t feel right. You grab Kim by the sleeve and
stand hurriedly, turning back the way you came.

 

The snow is unsteady beneath your feet, but the going is easier for some reason.

 

It’s easier to see, you realize.

 

Easier because of a pale blue light.

 

You stop in your tracks as if you’d never had any momentum to begin with. Or
maybe that was Its doing.

 

You turn around very slowly, knowing all-too-well what’s going to be there.

 

You don’t want to see it nearly as much as it felt like you did a minute ago.

 

Kim wasn’t ready for you to stop. You’d still had his sleeve. He’d tripped and
fallen. He was facing the other way now, the blue lighting his face like one of
those plasma bolt lamps from Spencer’s. The look on his face is shock, or maybe
horror.

 

“Holy fuck, man.”

 

It’s a horse whisper. The sort of sound you make when you scream for help in a
dream.

 

Two instincts compete in you, each pulling so hard they seem about to tear you
in half:

 

\_Turn around.\_

 

\_Run.\_

 

\_Turn around.\_

 

\_Run.\_

 

Hesitation never got you anywhere.

 

You take a deep breath and shut your eyes.

 

\_Not because they are easy,\_

 

You pivot on your heels and exhale.

 

\_But because they are hard!\_

 

You wrench your eyes back open.

 

It’s floating there listlessly like one of those heavy mylar balloons, its black
hulk almost invisible save for the blue veins, and the gently wavering
silhouette of its dark, chrome feathers as they knead at the air like cookie
dough. A fine powder of snow churns in the air beneath it, in just the spot
you’d run through not ten seconds ago.

 

It’s humming softly, as if for its own amusement.

 

Your breath stills, your heart in your throat. If it was close before, it’s
really close now. On the roof it had felt as if you could almost touch it. Now,
if you took a couple steps and jumped up to reach, you could have. Hell, you
could have \_licked \_it. Maybe gotten your tongue stuck like some kind of
idiot.

 

It seems even bigger here, tucked neatly between the trees. But you feel
something you recognize from the roof.

 

You’d been right about what that Black Triangle should look like up close, but
maybe sexy wasn’t the right word. It’s simple, elegant, powerful, and poised.

 

It’s beautiful, and not like the ones on TV or in the movies. It isn’t just
smooth and futuristic, it’s sculpted. It has a build not like a war machine, or
even something beautiful the way the Space Shuttle is beautiful, but rather like
a Howard Hughes airplane. Like someone had poured their heart and soul into it.
Like they’d thrown every ounce of their being into that strange, exotic metal,
and spent every thought and emotion they had on creating the most wonderful,
functional thing they possibly could. The sort of energy people imagine God put
into creating the world.

 

Somehow, amid the surges of adrenaline-fueled panic, part of your mind is in the
eye of the hurricane. For that little part, everything is right with the
Universe.

 

You take a step closer, and then another. It’s almost as intimidating as it is
enthralling, but not \_quite_.

 

So you get closer, and closer still. Closer, until something changes.

 

A bit of the metal recedes, and from beneath it shines a bright, white light.

 

You don’t know why, but your brain finally clicks.

 

And you run.

 

You run harder and faster than you ever have. Harder than you thought you ever
could. Harder than you thought was possible for anyone. The cold, dead branches
of trees lash at you like chain whips as they snap over your head and shoulders.
The snow crumbles beneath your feet as if the world itself is falling apart
behind you. You run and climb and clamber, even as your lungs burn with ice and
your heart and mind beg for oxygen.

 

You can’t tell for how long, but it seems like an eternity. You go faster and
faster, but you never seem to get anywhere. Just trees and more trees. Hills and
more hills. Ice and more ice. Like running on a treadmill. Like running in a
dream.

 

Is it chasing you? You don’t know. You don’t want to look back.

 

But you have to look back!

 

You repeat the mantra again, you chant it to yourself with the exhales of your
breath:

 

\_because they are hard.\_

 

\_Because They Are Hard.\_

 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_BECAUSE THEY ARE HARD.\_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

 

You turn to look, and as you do, you feel yourself falling.

 

It’s a long fall. Long enough to think about what’s happening. That means it’s
long enough to know it’s probably going to be nasty. You don’t feel anything
when you hit the ground, save the thud of your breath leaving your lungs.

 

You gasp for air and try to sit up as best you can, your vision swimming and
tying knots with the trees towering over you. A little comes back to you. Not
much, but enough to haul yourself to sitting.

 

You’re sitting in waist-deep water. Your left leg is bent the wrong way around.
The cold would probably be setting in if you could feel anything, but you’re
well past that. Not even your leg aches. But your heart is still beating, and
that means it’s time to go. So you run.

 

Only you don’t run.

 

It’s only a few steps, then you’re face down in the water. The world goes black
before you can put another thought together.

 

It’s still black when you start thinking again.

 

Then it’s white. Brilliant white. White like staring at summer clouds.

 

You’re dead, surely.

 

You would be sure if your leg hadn’t set to hurting. Hurting a lot.

 

You can’t see much, but you try to get your bearings.

 

You’re not in the water anymore, not as far as you can tell. You’re on your
back, and on top of something. A table. You can find its edges with your hands
and good leg. A little shifting tells you it’s bent ergonomically, like a
dentist’s chair leaned most of the way back.

 

Could Kim have found you? Could they have gotten you to a hospital? You doubt
it, but they must have, right?

 

“Mom?”

 

“Dad?”

 

“Kim?”

 

You try to come up with some other names, but decide against calling for your
Auntie Jenny.

 

There’s only one left. The one you’re pretty sure you don’t want it to be. The
one you’re terrifyingly certain it is.

 

“G7X?”

 

“S - 5 - K.”

 

It echoes around the room as if over an airport intercom, sounding just like it
did on the radio, though sharp and clear. Your breath is fast and random; your
voice is too.

 

“G7X, S5K. Where am I?”

 

You’re not sure why you said it that way. That had been all you could think of.
Maybe just because it was the only way you’d ever spoken with her.

 

“Earth.”

 

The kid’s voice again, just like on the radio. Then the audio scratches, and
Carl Sagan’s voice comes in it’s place.

 

“...pale, blue, dot.”

 

It scratches again.

 

“United States of America,” in the voice of John F. Kennedy.

 

Once more.

 

“Sandusky,” in your own.

 

That last one sends chills reverberating up and down your spine.

 

You can see a little better now, and that isn’t doing your building panic any
favors. The room is circular, and plated in a similar reflective metal to the
triangle’s skin, though the finish is a little more muted. Machines line the
walls, chirping quietly to themselves.

 

That all confirms your fears of where you are, which would be bad enough in and
of itself. But the real problem is what you see when you lay back:

 

Overhead, a series of mechanical arms hangs from the ceiling, some holding
lights and others, needles and probes. Like H.R. Gieger designed a chandelier.

 

It’s difficult to see in the harsh light, but the arm with the biggest needle is
coming closer. It’s big enough that you can see the steep, angular cut forming
the tip of the pipette.

 

It’s descending over your sternum. Over your lungs. Over your heart.

 

It’s getting awfully close, and doesn’t look about to stop. You fight to move,
but your body ignores you. Not that you could have gotten very far anyway. But
maybe the thought had occurred to her too, because you hear a door shunt open.
And then you hear footsteps. Soft, delicate footsteps.

 

They’re slow and calculated at first, but they quicken. They’re getting closer.
You can almost see her. You can almost see \_it_.

 

You don’t want to look, but it might be the last thing you ever see.You’re
pretty sure you don’t want the last thing to be the giant needle.

 

You don’t want to look, but you know you have to. You can still do it. It
doesn’t have to all be for nothing. Even if you die here, you can do what you
set out to do:

 

\_De-ice the antenna, and\_

 

\_MEET THE GIRL, and\_

 

\_Do the other things.\_

 

\_Not because they are easy.\_

 

\_But because they are HARD.\_

 

You crane your neck to see.

 

There’s not much to see but a flat silhouette, black as night against the harsh
backlight. It seems to tower over you as you lay on the chair. It’s not quite
scrawny, but perhaps wiry. Amorphous folds hang from it in strange places, some
of the edges hard and some of them soft. There’s shapes you’d never seen before,
not on any living creature. But it’s the head that really gets you:

 

You can’t make out much in the flat bloom of the light, but it’s big, and rises
to peaks on either side. Your imagination runs the gamut of forms that could
possibly make that shape, and doesn’t like a one of them.

 

It gets closer, and closer yet until it’s beside you. You feel a pressure on
your chest, and then a sting. Your jacket hides the needle as it tears into your
flesh.

 

As you close your eyes and wait for the end, something takes your hand.
Something soft and warm. The pain surges under the needle and you can’t help a
scream. The grip gets a little tighter, and the speakers echo again.

 

“S - 5 - K.”

 

“We have nothing to fear...” rings the voice of F.D.R.

 

And then the Portuguese Greeting from the record. You know that one pretty well;
you'd cited it in a report on the thing. Maybe she knows that.

 

“Peace and Happiness to All.”

 

Suddenly you can’t feel the needle anymore, and in its place spreads a feeling
of warmth. It surges through your blood in a tsunami. It’s a strange feeling. An
exotic feeling. You’re not sure you like it. After a second you’re ready for it
to stop. But it’s fascinating. And then it’s everywhere, and you can hardly feel
it at all.

 

The pain in your leg fades, and a thousand other little scrapes and aches you
didn’t know you had.

 

With the strange, soft thing in your hand, even the fear seems to fade.

 

\_“From the high desert, and the great American Southwest, I bid you all good
evening or good morning.”\_

 

A profound sense of peace washes over you. The world's gone black again, but G7X
is yours.

 

END
