---

title: Moonlight in Vermont
genre: FanFiction

---
\*\*Prologue\*\*

 

“Hey Doc...,”

 

The man with the brush gun clasps his hat to his skull with a palm and turns to
face you. Wind whips the brim into seizures.

 

“...you still good back there?”

 

You knew what he was going to ask. It was the fifth time he’d called back since
the snow had started that afternoon. You’d found it insulting up until your
jacket soaked through; now you were pretty sure he was trying to tell you
something.

 

“I’m from The Point, mister. It’s like I said: the snow don’t bother me.”

 

The truth was you hadn’t felt your fingers since dinner. You'd stripped your
gloves to eat and that was the end of it. Fuck vasoconstriction.

 

“And what about the Cap’n?”

 

Captain Peachfuzz lumbers beneath you with what seems much the same drunken
inevitability he has been nye-on a month now, but you don’t know shit about
brahmin.

 

“Look, mister, I said I’d be there this week. Big as the advance was, I don’t
wanna’ find out what happens when I don’t show. Bet you don’t either.”

 

“Press hard enough and we won’t have to find out. Weather like this, it don’t
take much.”

 

“I know, Charlie. I said this ain’t my first storm.”

 

You round a bend in the trail and the wind catches you like a hammerblow. The
sea spreads dark and wide to your East, whitecaps whipped up into a low simmer,
and breakers growling. Charlie laughs.

 

“It’s about to be.”

 

“What’s that supposed to mean?”

 

“It means get off the fucking brahmin before you get blown off. You ain’t seen
shit like this.”

 

He stops dead and you let him. They said Charlie was the best there was; could’a
done a lot cheaper if all you needed was pack animals.

 

“Jack! Shannon!”

 

His voice cracks like a whip over the wind. The coyote and nightstalker riding
at your rear flanks perk up.

 

“We callin’ it sir?”

 

Shannon’s voice was almost as even as always, but you’ve learned to know relief
when you hear it.

 

“You heard right. That guy back at Diamond said the bridge for highway one’s
out. Probably yankin’ our chain, but this ain’t the weather to find out.”

 

“Sure ain’t, sir. And I know he won’t say nothin’, but you know Jack ain’t built
for this kind of weather.”

 

The nightstalker’s ears flick back, but he doesn’t comment.

 

“I know. See to ‘em. Figure we’ll do Newburyport like usual, but the marsh is
real loose so we better lead the animals from here. Doc? Why don’t you give Jack
a look. He’s freezin’ on accoun’a you after all. I’ll take care ‘a Bullwinkle
and the Cap’n.”

 

Charlie wasn’t shy about orders, particularly for someone \_you \_were paying. A
few weeks ago you’d been ready to deck the bastard, but there was only so much
you could do when the son-of-a-bitch was right all the time. You drop to the
snow, legs suddenly numb from riding.

 

Jack isn’t as tall as he looks on the mount. If it weren’t for the cowboy hat
he’d only make it a bit past your nose, and the drunken stagger in his walk
isn’t doing him any favors. Shannon, who's got him under the shoulder, stares
daggers.

 

"What's up, Doc? Looking for a little job security?"

 

She'd been on your case since Diamond City, but the venom seems fresh this time.
She stares down her muzzle at you as if it were the barrel of her rifle.

 

"I didn't know he could get this bad."

 

It was the truth, stupid as it sounded. The son of a bitch looked like he died
hours ago.

 

"Uh huh. Doctor."

 

She thrusts a pair of halters into your palm.

 

"Well, if you don't know nothin', make yourself useful."

 

Peabody bays mournfully, and Aesop snorts a jet of steam against your jacket.

 

The Newburyport Light still stands proudly at the gates of the Merrimack, though
the bricks have been blasted to sand with the centuries, and the edges worn
smooth and round. The old keeper’s house had been a restaurant once, and maybe a
lodge or a trading post or something since the bombs fell. But the furniture is
gone now. A brick fireplace stands alone against the western wall, hearth piled
high with debris and wedged with a copy of \_Junktown Jerky Vendor \_for
tinder.\_ \_Charlie levels his brush gun on the plug. You cup your ears.

 

\_Bang!\_

 

It echoes from the windows and beams like a church bell. Shannon flinches. Jack,
who’s folded like a kitten in her arms, is too cold to notice. Charlie works the
lever.

 

\_Bang!\_

 

Your ears are ringing, but you hardly mind. Know storms or not, you know
frostbite, and you’re getting there. And Jack. You really hadn't been thinking,
had you? Were you tired? Cold? Stupid?

 

\_Bang!\_

 

The fire flickers to life. Shannon slumps forward to it, clutching Jack to her
chest and working the tissue of his shoulder with a paw. Maybe she sniffled a
little. Charlie sits beside them, gun in his lap.

 

"He'll be alright, Shan. They just get a little slow. That's all."

 

"I know, sir. Sometimes so slow their hearts stop."

 

You stay by the door and rifle through your packs, pretending to look for
something important.

 

"It hasn't stopped yet. It's not going to."

 

She snorts.

 

"Should'a stayed in Goodneighbor. Got no business pressing up this far this time
of year, bridge or no bridge. Whoever wants that SOB so bad can wait."

 

"Jack's a big boy, Shan."

 

"I know. It's just-"

 

"It's dangerous work we do. He knows it, same as you. We try to do it right, but
we got to do it. Bring the wasteland together and all that."

 

"And not get bought by Crimson?"

 

"Or shot by the folks that want so badly to meet our Good Doctor, here."

 

He says it loud enough to make it clear he knows you're listening.

 

"We'll be more careful. If things do turn sour with the clients we'd better be
in fighting shape when it happens. That means you, too, Doc. And Jack? I'd
rather he tell me when it's getting too cold, but if he's ‘gonna be all stoic,
see you do it for him, alright?"

 

"Right."

 

"Let me know when he comes around. Cooking Salisburies in the meantime; figure
we could use the pick-me-up."

 

"Thank you, sir."

 

"You know you don't have to call me that."

 

She smiles faintly.

 

"You know you love it."

 

 

An hour and a hot meal had Jack well enough for a hand of Caravan. He'd been a
bit stiff and tired-looking, but he smiled easily as he nuked the 10 and
everything on it you'd been counting on and raked in another 150 of your caps.
Then he and Shan had retired, so to speak, though you could hear them going at
it through the ceiling. Charlie laid on a bedroll by the fire and set to leafing
through a magazine he'd found in the attic.

 

The wind had picked up through the evening. The windows rattle softly in their
panes and whirling snow builds on their edges in thick, sticky globs. By now the
waves are big enough to thunder over the crackle of the fire. Charlie's right.
It's different.

 

You're no stranger to winter. The Point's perched on Great Erie's southern
shore, and in the colder months the thick, gray clouds that wash in from the
water bury its rusting skeletons in so much snow you could almost forget the
bombs fell. That's how you got your start, actually: Frostbite. You were just a
teenager with a combat knife and a pre-war dimestore book about a doctor, but
folks there had nobody else to turn to.

 

It hadn't been pretty, but in time the amputations got a little cleaner and then
turned to surgery, and pneumonia claimed a few fewer settlers. Doc Kildare, they
called you, after the doc in the story, and word got out you were the best there
was.

 

You liked to think that was true, and sometimes it really did seem like it. Get
a winning streak going and it felt like you could fix anything. Save anybody.
Even the biggest guns don’t afford that kind of confidence. But the clatter of
the wind on the siding has you on edge. There’s something inevitable about it.
It makes you feel small.

 

Sleep doesn’t come easily. Your pocketwatch is broke, but the fire’s burned low,
and Charlie’s since snuffed his reading lamp and stumbled out to take first
watch in the lighthouse cab. Maybe thirty minutes ago there’d been a distinct
round two up above, but that was the last you’d heard of Jack and Shan.

 

Now that you were alone you couldn’t help envying that scaly son of a bitch,
laying up there all comfy with that ‘yote wrapped around him. She was a fine
piece, too. You turn against your ego and maybe better judgment and let yourself
imagine.

 

\*\*Do No Harm\*\*

 

Morning comes, but it could have fooled you. The windows are black with frost
and the wind's whipped up into a howl. You about lost your dick going out for a
piss. Must’a slept sometime though, because you stumble back in to the smell of
hotcakes.

 

It’s Jack at the fire this time. He’s clad in a ragged tee and the lower half of
his inner-layer road leathers. He’s standing taller, but his scales shine dull
when they catch the firelight.

 

“Top ‘a the Mornin’, Doc.”

 

It’s a chipper voice that greets you. The fold in his ear suggests he’s putting
a little of it on.

 

"What time is it?"

 

He shrugs.

 

"Beats me. Shan and Charlie went out scoutin' the bridge. Shan wouldn't let me
come."

 

"So you're making hotcakes? I'd be out cold if I were you."

 

The ear wilts suddenly, and his whiskers with it. His gaze slides past you to
the door.

 

"It ain't your mate out there in the storm. Shan and I 'been watching each
other's backs since Goodsprings. I should be there."

 

"She just lookin' out for ‘ya."

 

"I know. And hell, maybe she’s right. Either way, no use to laze around and
worry, so I'm keeping busy. Pancake? They’re for the scouting party, but I'm
sure I could sneak you one."

 

He looks back to his skillet and then to you, muzzle softening. You'd have
rather he bitched you out, but it’s been a month since you’ve had something that
didn’t come out of a can or get cut from a molerat. The smell is so sweet it
burns. You give him a nod.

 

"I'm sure Charlie has her back."

 

"I'm sure he does. And she can take care of herself, but so can I, you know?"

 

He winces.

 

"I'm sorry about last night, by the way. She had no right to treat you like
that."

 

You flash him a practiced smile.

 

"It's not her fault she's crazy about you."

 

"Trust me, Doc. You have no idea."

 

He slides you a cake.

 

 

 

Sugar shakes the sleep out of you by the third bite or so. The wind’s gone
nowhere, but there might be a hint of skyglow behind the frost. It’s enough to
get you in gear.

 

“Need anything after last night?”

 

You pack light as traveling doctors go; most of the chucklefucks are little more
than dealers. But you know better than to be empty handed. For now you’ve got
places to be, and the weather isn’t looking friendly.

 

“...stimulants? Buffout?”

 

“I’m fine,” he yawns.

 

You roll the kit back up in your sleeping bag.

 

“Your call. Could be a long day.”

 

“Hold your horses, Doc. Good chance we’re laid up yet.”

 

It wasn’t a surprise to hear; still, you feel yourself grimacing. The merchant
back in Ohio hadn’t told you what you’d be up against when he passed the word,
but it was awful far and an awful lot of money. Whatever it was, it wasn’t
casual. And it was you they wanted. Not just a doctor, but you.

 

“It ain’t just cargo we’re moving, Jack. The wealthy aren’t patient, and neither
are the dying."

 

He shrugs.

 

“I hear ‘ya; we'll see what Charlie thinks. No doubt Shan would lay up given the
chance; love ‘er to death, but if we let her have her way we’d probably still be
camped out with the NCR waiting for the heat to back off.”

 

There’s something frustrating about the even keel of his voice.

 

“What \_Charlie \_thinks? These people didn’t hire me to come be the new village
quack at my leisure. We should have been there a \_week \_ago.”

 

Jack’s brow furrows, humor fading.

 

“You didn’t hire us for our itinerary. If you wanted that you should’a called
Crimson. ‘Course, Crimson would’a turned around for sure when they heard the
bridge was out. More likely they’d be gone ‘soon as they worked out they were
too far east for the NCR to wipe their asses for ‘em. Nothing out here is fast,
and none of it is regular. Still, there's a case for moving. We're plowing
headlong into winter. Things may well get worse before they get better, and
we've neither the food nor the time to winter here. And even I don't have the
patience."

 

The door slams open and Shan staggers in, looking like she rolled in a bowl of
sugar. Bits of frost glint at the corners of her eyes and her breath spills
white and heavy across the floor.

 

“It’s fucked,” she barks.

 

“Huh?”

 

“The bridge. It’s fucked. It’s not just out, it’s \_washed\_ out. River’s damn
near breached the bank.”

 

Jack Shudders.

 

“Jesus. No shit?”

 

“None. I don’t know what the hell we’re going to do.”

 

“What about the inland bridge?”

 

“95? Worse. 125 or 495 maybe, but that’s days out of our way. Longer in this
weather, and there ain’t much shelter out that way.”

 

You look up at her.

 

“So what do ‘ya figure then?” \\

\_“I said I don’t know! \_Back to Diamond, I guess, but to with so much snow we
might not make it. I told you we should’a stayed there; \_this is bad._”

 

“Where’s Charlie?”

 

“Still at the riverbank. Dumbass found a boat and got it in his head it might
get us across the delta. Sent me back ahead to check on the animals.”

 

Jack pipes back up.

 

“He’s alone out there?”

 

“He’s got the flare gun. And ain’t nobody raiding in this weather; reckon those
asshats have frozen to extinction in these parts by now. Either way, we wait for
gunfire. One shot for a green light, two or more for distress. Those pancakes?"

 

“All yours, sweety.”

 

She chuffs, rolls one up, and forces it down her gullet.

 

“Aces.”

 

Twenty minutes comes and goes with the pancake batter, and a single shot pops
off somewhere behind the far wall. Shan pulls Jack into the fold of her jacket.

 

“On your feet, Doc.”

 

But you’re already at the door.

 

It’s not so bad now that you aren’t fresh from the bedroll. The snow’s knee deep
under the eves and worse on the road, but it’s settled so light and fine it’s
hardly tougher than wading a stream. ‘Course Shan’s on point taking the brunt of
it, but it’s nothing you haven’t seen before. Step carefully, watch out for ruts
that could gather water and freeze, and don’t let the wind get ahead of you.
Water Street passes like a scene from a postcard, rotting wood buried in snow
and shattered windows frozen shut. Captain Peachfuzz lumbers beside you, hooves
muffled. You’ve been riding him long enough to know the wheezing sound he’s
making means something’s got ‘em nervous. You tighten up on the halter.

 

The block ends with the wrought iron fence of an empty park, and the wind rushes
back from the ocean to greet you. It’s relaxed some since last night, but it’s
certainly stiff enough to lean on, and then stiffer as Shan turns north to press
for the riverbank. The windward side is different. The snow is shallow here, but
the ice is thicker and much more random. Shingle rooves, laid bare by the wind,
ruffle like gulls’ feathers, and the ocean’s artillery thunder echos dull and
loud across the delta.

 

Shan wasn’t kidding about the river. The water’s high enough that the floating
docks in the harbor have nearly capsized into their moorings, and the surge has
the current churned up in chaotic swells tall enough to curl and break. She
leans up against the quay and pulls Jack close.

 

“This is insane. Jesus, Charlie, you’ve had some ideas, but this?”

 

Jack rolls a shoulder and slides his arm around her back beneath the jacket.

 

“We’ll be alright. He’ll have a plan.”

 

She clenches her eyes shut, rubs them, and then pries them open again.

 

“I just wish I had a different one.”

 

Most of the harbor is a forest of rusting masts, and all but two of the
surviving hulls are swamped or capsized. The honeyed glow of Charlie’s lamp is
clear in windows of the outermost survivor. Shan turns for the dock ramp and
swallows audibly. It’s maybe an eighth mile up, and you can already hear it
ringing as it bucks in its moorings. Some harbormaster a few centuries ago
hadn’t thought to add railings, and twisting waves break in torrents across the
foot of the thing. It would be treacherous even without the animals, and if the
Atlantic was anything like Great Erie, the water would have you frozen as soon
as drowned. Shan gives Jack a squeeze and turns him loose. Her proud ears wilt a
little without him. She steps up to the gate, and then falters. He shakes his
head.

 

“It’s alright. I’ll go first.”

 

He pipes up a little.

 

“Then you, then the Doc, okay?”

 

“Yeah,” she breathes.

 

He turns back to you and takes Captain Peachfuzz’s halter, lowering his voice
just over the wind.

 

“She can’t swim, Doc. Keep an eye on her.”

 

You don’t need him to tell you not to breathe a word of it.

 

And then he’s on the ramp, steps falling slow and careful. Aesop shudders and
then stumbles on with a tug. Peachfuzz bays mournfully and fights the straps.
Jack slips. Suddenly your heart is in your throat, but he’s still standing. He
sets a paw on the animal’s nose and whispers something. Another tug. This time
they ease their way down.

 

Shan steps back up, perhaps being careful to hide her face from you. Like the
brahmin before her she shudders as the planks buck up beneath her paws, but she
presses on. You follow closely.

 

It’s about as slick as you feared. The surface is scalloped with grip pads, but
water’s gathered and frozen between them. The saving grace is the sea spray. The
ice it’s left is mostly course rime, which grips well enough as long as you’re
careful. With Shan ahead of you, you couldn’t have been reckless if you wanted.

 

The dock at the bottom is slick, too, but the footprint’s wider, and the
pitching not quite so severe. Shan grabs Jack’s hand and squeezes it. He
squeezes back, but pulls free and trades you the halters.

 

“Be careful,” she barks.

 

“I’ll be fine. Peabody doesn’t spook.”

 

“Still. We might not be able to warm you up if you go in.”

 

“I won’t go in.”

 

And then he’s back up the ramp and wrangling the last brahmin. Son of a bitch
really does make it look easy; a word or a scritch here and there, and it’s like
the rest of the world just doesn’t exist for them. Calm right down and do as he
says like they had a nice chat about it.

 

Another couple of careful steps has him down again. Shan’s ears prick back up.
She reaches for his hand, but stops herself and makes like she was only rubbing
the heat back into her own.

 

“That everything? Are we good?”

 

“Fine,” she yips, sounding better.

 

“Doc?”

 

“We’re good.”

 

Together you make for the boat, dancing as the waves churn the platforms beneath
you. Charlie's sat patiently in the wheelhouse, wearing his heaviest jacket and
an easy grin.

 

"She's a beaut, ain't she?"

 

The boat is some kind of fishing trawler. Single-level deckhouse, in-boards, and
a name that starts with a 'J' and has at least one 'n' in it. She wouldn’t have
looked like much if it wasn’t so hard to find one still floating, but right
about now it feels like you won the lottery.

 

It's quiet inside. The wind's playing the rigging like a harmonica, but from
here it's muted enough to hear each other breathing. Somewhere below, the hull
moans as it rubs a dock piling. It's a sick sort of sound. Shan licks her chops
and swallows.

 

"You really sure about this, Charlie?" You seen it out there?"

 

"I ain't blind, Shan."

 

"Not stupid either. That's the part that's got me confused."

 

His smile fades.

 

"It's bad. I know. I get it. But we've got a job to do, and even if we wanted to
turn tail, we're a lot closer to Port-Castle now than we are Diamond.

 

"Bad? It's fucked!"

 

"If we were 'fucked' you'd know it. We'd be dead. For now we're not dead, and
that means we're not fucked. We'll get through this."

 

"In this bucket?"

 

"Sure. We're under storm surge. Long as we don't waste too much time the
current'll be driving us in more than out."

 

"So? What are we ‘gonna do, row?"

 

His smile returns

 

"I told you this SOB was good luck."

 

He reaches into his backpack and produces a steel cylinder. You aren't too sure
what you're looking at, but Shan's jaw drops.

 

"You \_kept\_ that? How?"

 

"A bait-and-switch. Your average raider doesn't know a fusion core from an
energy cell. So I gave him an energy cell, and they were on their way.

 

"And if they \_had?\_ They'd have shot you where you stood!"

 

"But they didn't," he smirks, strutting to the aft of the deckhouse and slotting
the thing in somewhere.

 

"Your life wasn’t worth that thing, Charlie!"

 

He throws a switch. Electric lights flicker on around you, and the deck shudders
into a low rumble.

 

"Evidently it was. Unless you had a better idea."

 

She sighs.

 

"You ever run a boat before, Charlie?"

 

"Read about it in a magazine."

 

She stammers half a reply and chokes on it. He sets a hand on her shoulder.

 

"I said I hear ‘ya, Shan, and I know you’ve been right more than your share, but
sometimes you’ve got to have a little faith."

 

She glances to the water and so do you. It’s inky black and cut with standing
waves and a whole lot of maelstrom, but it’s like he says: the bulk is flowing
upstream.

 

“Just a quick jaunt to the other side, huh?”

 

He gives her a bit of a squeeze.

 

“God willing.”

 

Presently Jack stumbles in from the deck, having tied the last brahmin.

 

“We’re all aboard, Skipper.”

 

Charlie flashes the smile again and cracks his knuckles.

 

“Right. Jack, you’re with me. Don’t need you getting wet out there if we can
avoid it, so keep an eye on the engine and anything in the water I might miss.
Shan, you’re going to have to mind the animals, because I want the Doc on the
spotlight, alright?”

 

The spotlight is mounted at the bow, where even now waves gush through the
scuppers. That yote is going to owe you one.

 

“Right,” she says. You nod your understanding.

 

“Alright. If things get hairy, holler good and loud. Don’t wait until you’re in
deep shit. Got it?"

 

More nods. The floor shudders again, and you feel the thud of the props as they
engage beneath you.

 

"Cut the moorings, take your stations, and cross your fingers."

 

Shan takes a turn at cracking her knuckles.

 

“Yes, sir.”

 

A quick shoulder to the door and you're back in the thick of it. The wind
shrieks like a flock of barn owls and the wires sing loud and shrill. You’d
forgotten how cold it really was. Between the water and the gusts it cuts
straight to the bone and hollows you out from the inside. Even Shan shrinks into
her jacket as she fights to fish her knife from the folds.

 

"Ready, Doc?"

 

Your gloves are thick and fingers numb. You swear and bite at the lug of your
blade. It snaps open, taking a fleck of tooth with it.

 

"Ready."

 

"Then cut!"

 

She pounces on her docking cleat and you throw your weight into yours. The
mooring is thick but ancient; it shreds under your blade like rotten cork.

 

"Nearly loose here!"

 

"Finish it!" She barks.

 

You roll your weight onto the spine of the blade and the tether snaps. The stern
bucks in the waves and starts to kick around.

 

"Shit!"

 

Shan cocks her arm to swipe again. The bow swings in toward the dock and starts
to dig. There's a thud below, and then a screech of metal. The props throb and
churn shimmering foam in the darkness.

 

"Work with me, you piece of shit!"

 

Another swipe, then a crack. Her cable sings in the air and falls away. The bow
slides out again, and the deck heels beneath you. The brahmin bay and scramble.
Shan clasps at the gunwale and lunges for their tie-offs. You clamber forward
for the light.

 

The grip-tape around the deckhouse long since wore through to the fiberglass,
and what little purchase there is to find in it is drowned in a slurry of ice
and brackish water. You leap and swing and scuttle, but with the mooring free
and engines churning you might as well be saddling a radstag. Your feet slip
beneath you, and your hands along the railing. Your toe stubs. Your thumb jams.
Your knee slams the deck and splits open. The first wave breaks wide and tall
over the bow. The foam looms like gothic steeples, and crashes down like
buckshot.

 

God you’re cold. You thought it was cold before, but it was nothing. The water
stings like molten nickel and spreads roots through your ribs to bind your
heart. You gain a foot. You loose the bulk of it. The deck pitches, and you
slide forward another three on your shins. Behind you the deckhouse glows like a
microwave oven. Warmth. Safety. You’d agreed to this why, exactly? So the
snekdog wouldn’t freeze to death? So the ‘Yote wouldn’t drown? Good reasons.
Charlie always had such goddamn good reasons. Must be why you pay him the big
bucks.

 

You grab hold of the light and swing it down to the whitecaps. The milky beam
spills out across a forest of crooked swells and mounds of folding water, but
with the light so low it's tough to pick out much definition. Foam flashes on
along the crests and the troughs drag long shadows. They look a lot bigger than
they had from the quay, and in the light you can see the water's stained a
thick, turbid tan. But you're clear of the dock and the worst of the eddies. The
bucking tapers off and you settle into a slow, awkward tumble. It’s across the
keel at first, but the props surge and the rudder kicks out beneath you. The
deck heels, and then you’re rolling across the beam.

 

It’s easy for a moment. Just a couple of degrees and a spout of stinging
whitewater. Your right foot slips, but your left hand is frozen to the railing.
Then it feels like you’ll roll back, but you don’t. The sea swells slowly
beneath you, and bit by bit you begin to heel again. Ten degrees, then fifteen,
and maybe twenty. Another wave breaks and vomits through the scuppers. This time
your legs give out. The spotlight slews across the water and your knuckles slam
between it and the railing. Good thing your hands are numb. And then there’s
what Charlie said. Are you in trouble? You scramble to your feet and swing the
light back ‘round. Not yet. And if you were, who would save you? Shannon? The
heel grows until you brace a boot on the gunwale, but you hold the light steady.
Charlie must see something, too, because the heel breaks all of a sudden and the
bow plummets down the windward side. Water again. Cold as hell, but softer. You
plant your feet as the deck rises beneath you.

 

The clouds part some and there’s a hint of moonlight. For a moment, at the
crest, the delta spreads wide before you: The far bank is a mess of tidewater.
The tributaries are breached, and the structures along them kneel from their
foundations into the sea. There might be land, but you can’t make it out for the
floodwater; you sweep your light over it to make sure Charlie sees. And then
ahead: Plum island, the mouth of the Merrimack, and the ocean. The beam catches
the cab of the Plum Island Light. The glass is shattered, but the mirror glares
back from within.

 

God it’s dark out there, moon or no moon. You can make out the ghosts of bigger
swells behind the breakwater, but the beam falls short. After that it’s just the
rush and thunder. The voice of the Witch of November, like the rhymes the
merchants sang on Eerie.

 

But then the bow’s down again, and you’re back in the darkness.

 

Another kick on the rudder, but not so much this time. The waves break across
the bow at maybe thirty degrees, rolling the deck just enough to keep you
dancing. Scan the beam. Pause on the debris and the maelstrom. Ignore the cold
as it squeezes the air from your lungs.

 

And it’s slow going. The water rushes by beneath you a scant few knots slower
than you claw your way ahead. The bank creeps glacially away, each wave and
current threatening to drag you back or pull you under. Waves break. Spray
stings. Ten minutes, maybe, but it feels like forever. Then there’s the middle.

 

The waves straighten, and the engines surge ahead. The bow dips through a trench
and then lunges to port. You’re thrown free of the light and slip to the
starboard gunwale, but the water’s moving with you now. All you need is
somewhere dry and sturdy enough, and you’re home free. It’d be a day or two to
Port-Castle on brahmin. Three if the weather stays bad. Tough, maybe, but
survivable. And if you played your cards right you could get in before slipping
into the second week.

 

Maybe Shan was right back in Diamond. Maybe it was foolhardy to push north. But
you’d make it. Keep this train moving and maybe your employers won’t even notice
you’re late. Weather be damned.

 

The far bank barrels toward you and the bow kicks out again. You sweep the beam
back across the shore. It’s worse up close. It wouldn’t have mattered if the
bridge had held together; the floodplain on the far side is gone. To the east
you can make out the skeleton of a forest, but bank’s breached there too. Three
feet of water, maybe. Two, at least, and moving fast. And the buildings you saw?
Swamped damn near to the balconies. Planks, shingles, and branches litter the
water, beat the hull, and crunch like bones in the prop blades. The water roars;
the brahmin bay and whinny.

 

There goes the rudder again. Starboard this time. The sunken forest’s breaking
the worst of the waves so the heel isn’t so bad, but the engines cry as the
current shears against them. At first there’s no progress, and then maybe a
little. The stern catches a tree truck with a sickly thud and jolts you half way
back to port. The deck floods for a moment and the beam slews, but you catch
something in the light.

 

A barn.

 

The half-rusted corrugation catches and scatters the spotlight in firework
bursts. You hadn’t seen it before, tucked as it is into the trees. It must be
perched on a bit of a hill, though, because the foundation is just high enough
to clear most of the whitecaps. Charlie pulls close and the props settle. The
current takes over, then there’s the thud of the keel across the ground. The
deck lurches, but you’ve got the handrail.

 

“Doc!”

 

It’s Shan shouting to you, her voice just loud enough to carry. She’s braced on
the gunwale just behind the deckhouse and beckoning. You leave the spotlight
where it is and scuttle back. She grabs you by the shoulder.

 

“Get up there and check it out, alright? Might be we can make land out the back,
and if nothing else it’ll keep the brahmin from freezing. Charlie and I ‘got the
boat handled.”

 

You glance down to the swirling water.

 

“Not planning to leave without me, are ‘ya?”

 

“Promise,” she barks, “Charlie's got it.”

 

You swear under your breath.

 

Do you trust him?

 

Sure as hell not the way Shannon does.

 

You haul yourself onto the railing anyway.

 

“Can you make that, Doc?”

 

It’s maybe fifteen feet to where the barn door’s wedged open. The water’s at
least shin deep and hauling ass, but it looks workable if you’re ready for it.
And there’s a tree about half way. As long as the branches hold, you ought to be
able to steady yourself there.

 

“I’ve got it.”

 

Your balance could be better, but you leap.

 

The cold is like stepping in magma, then you can’t feel anything at all. Even
with the waves broken the water tears at your shins until your soles slip, but
then there’s the tree. You grab a branch and dig the toe of your boot into the
gravel. Just a little moss in the wrong place and you’ll be finished, but
there’s no moss. You glance back to Shannon.

 

"Two shots for trouble!" She barks.

 

"Two shots."

 

You lunge for the barn. The water tugs again. This time you stumble, but there’s
the door. The rotting planks crunch like eggshells under your fingers, but they
hold. You flop forward onto the concrete.

 

Christ.

 

If any part of you is dry, you can’t find it. Your pants are drenched and
tearing talons into the skin and muscle beneath them. Your feet dance below you
like a marionette’s. The jacket’s better, but not much. A dull, heavy ache has
already taken root under your collar and started creeping down your spine. Soon
you won’t feel it at all. That’ll be trouble.

 

It’s dark inside. The spotlight casts faded shafts through the ice on the
windows, but there’s little to see in them except dust and sunbeams. You can
just make out the silhouette of a loft above you, and maybe a staircase. Another
pair of windows glow faintly on the second level of the far wall. The rest is
darkness.

 

And the sound. Sleet and hail beat the roof like the band of a snare, and the
cracks and warrens all around you shriek and whistle. There’s something else,
too, but it’s hard to place. Your imagination, maybe, but you swear it's
stronger as you stumble toward the stairs. You set your hand on your ten
millimeter, still not quite hearing it.

 

Two shots for trouble. You aren’t much of a shot, but that you can do. God
willing Shan or someone could even get to you.

 

The stairs groan under your weight, but they hold. The far windows flash with
lighting, and then again as you get closer. But you stop short. Now you hear it
properly: a faint, crackling humm, like a radio caught between stations. You
draw your pistol and turn to the shadows.

 

Surely it's no one.

 

Surely it's nothing.

 

You rack the slide.

 

"Hello?"

 

The hum chugs on. You strain for a direction in the racket of the hail. Closer
to the wall, maybe. Another bolt of lightning, and in the light of the flash a
stack of boxes. The floorboards creak and you whirl. The hum surges and you go
to whirl again, but suddenly there's light playing on the walls. Sharp, ruby
light.

 

"Drop it, asshole."

 

Your blood ices. Your arms slack. Two shots. All you needed was two shots, but
your finger falls limp on the trigger. Had you really come this far to get
mugged? To die? Here?

 

So what could you do? Drop, maybe? Surprise her? All you needed was to get the
shots off. Maybe you could--.

 

"Now, dipshit. I didn't skimp on this capacitor; it'll put a hole in you as big
as your fist, so put the gun on the ground."

 

The voice is firm but breathless. Your hand's still on the gun. It doesn't seem
to be going anywhere. You'll tell the others that was your winning courage, but
isn't.

 

"Who are you, stranger?" Breathes the voice. It's softer still, and you swear
there's pain in it. You've heard pain before, and it's got that sort of timbre.

 

"You sure as hell ain't Band, and you don't look like any minuteman I ever saw.
That means we ain't friends, so drop the goddamn pistol."

 

Definitely pain, just barely repressed. You sniff the air and choke on rotting
hemoglobin. Hurt bad.

 

"The gun. Don't test me."

 

Again, a little deeper. Mildew. Waste. She's been here a little while. You
listen for breathing.

 

Labored.

 

You have a chance.

 

The ice in your blood shoots to your fingers and the lump in your throat slides
down. You draw a long, shallow breath.

 

And you throw yourself to the floorboards.

 

The laser musket barks. The room flashes ruby and then dark again. You throw
yourself at the shadow and wait for pain or death but neither comes. Just a
thud, and something soft, and a quiet yip of pain.

 

You're staring her in the eyes.

 

Big, round eyes.

 

You've got the musket. She grabs for it back, but her grip's so weak you hardly
notice. You've got an arm pinned, and then another.

 

The eyes shut.

 

"At least kill me first, you brotherhood son of a--"

 

The ice had turned to fury, but now it collapses in a heap on top of you. The
thing below you yields so easy you might as well be wrestling a corpse. You
release the pair of big, meaty paws and slide the musket away, feeling suddenly
cruel.

 

"Brotherhood?"

 

"Don't play coy. I'm not your goddamn plaything and I'm not going back there."

 

There are still embers in her voice, but they're dim.

 

The lightning flashes.

 

Thick, matted, mocha fur.

 

Old, dried blood.

 

Streaks of dirt.

 

Tears, maybe.

 

You slide off of her; she doesn't move.

 

"Really, lady. You pulled a gun on me. I don't take that as a kindness. That's
all."

 

You stand again and dust yourself, suddenly remembering the cold. She whimpers.

 

"Then who the hell are you?"

 

"Doctor Kildare."

 

She breathes.

 

"Doctor?"

 

You swallow again, this time feeling right for the first time in a month.

 

"Doctor."

 

\--

 

A few cranks on the musket and the ruby glow is back. With the weapon propped up
on a crate it's just enough to get a good look at her: She's sprawled mostly on
her back, shoulders against one of the crates, and head propped on a bundle of
canvas. A handful of Med-X injectors litter the floor near the base of her tail.

 

She’s definitely a fox of some sort. Real thick coat: a sort of off-tan and
probably cream if she weren't so filthy. And she's bundled in a heavy, suede
jacket. A tear near the pocket leaks blood-caked fleece. Good chance she owes
her life to the thing in more ways than one.

 

"You're shot?"

 

She shakes her head.

 

"Wrecked."

 

\_“How?”\_

 

“Weather moved in. That’s all you need to know.”

 

You sigh, too cold to fight or even get curious.

 

“Yeah? Well, what’s under the jacket?”

 

“Steel rod. Some glass wounds, too.”

 

“Hard to breathe?”

 

“Oh yeah.”

 

“What else?”

 

She blinks hard.

 

“Pretty sure right leg’s broke. But I don’t feel noth--”

 

Suddenly the fox’s eyes flash wide and she gasps. The floorboards creak behind
you. You whirl one more time, and this time stare down Shannon’s rifling.

 

She's soaked too, now, and faintly trembling. Lucky damn yote must be a lot
warmer than you, because you stopped shaking ages ago. You hook a finger around
the muzzle of her gun and lower it. She chuffs.

 

"Hah. Chalk one up, Doc; never thought I'd see the day."

 

You cough up a laugh, wincing as the petty part of you wishes you could say she
was right.

 

"Not my doing. She shot at me but we got it sorted. Thanks for the help, by the
way."

 

Shan growls under her breath and rocks her rifle back onto its sling. Her face
softens quickly as her eyes adjust, and then her voice with it.

 

"Jesus. Sure you didn't shoot 'er, Doc?"

 

You turn back. The fox’s eyes are shut again and her head back against the
crates, but her muzzle leaks steam with her breath. You drop to your knees and
lean back in, getting quiet yourself.

 

"It’s an old wound. A couple days, at least."

 

“Is it bad?”

 

“Can’t tell. Probably.”

 

You lift a wrist and start hunting for a pulse, doing your best to sort your
thoughts with the counting.

 

What are your options?

 

You need a look under that jacket, but good chance she starts bleeding again if
you do. And heat. You're well on your way to freezing out. She's better dressed
than you are, but she's been laying here a long time, and judging from the
sudden warmth where you're kneeling, she's just wet herself. That will
complicate things. God damnit, Shan.

 

So the boat, then?

 

You'd have to move her, and without a backboard. Bad news, especially if there's
anything she can't feel. Maybe it's just the cold, but maybe it isn't.

 

You glance back to Shan. She's paced off toward the windows, head low and ears
folded.

 

"What's it like out back? Dry at all?"

 

You watch her shake her head in silhouette. Figures.

 

“It's all lowland," she barks, "Totally swamped. Either we go back out or we’re
gonna’ need a fire."

 

The timer in your head ticks over. One hundred twenty-two beats per minute
resting. Your little tussle is probably some of that, plus some more from Shan
pointing the gun at her. Call it an even hundred. So that’s what, maybe a
quarter of her blood? A third? You’ve got saline on the boat. Not a transfusion,
but it'll have to do. Shan’s gone, but you call out to her anyway. Her voice
echos back up from somewhere by the door.

 

“Your kit, right? Already on it, but we’ve got to lash the boat yet. Don’t
freeze to death in the meantime, ‘ight? Gotta’ figure our next move.”

 

It’s the firm, steady tone she uses with Jack. It's got a strange sense of
security to it.

 

“My clothes, too, if you can. I'm alright. But make it snappy, maybe.”

 

“Sit tight, Doc.”

 

Five minutes and she’s kept her word. It's not your whole kit, but it's got the
saline and a few older stimpaks. Not the miracle cure people claimed, but
adrenaline is adrenaline, and there's a good dose of antibiotics in there too. A
decent last-ditch if it comes down to it, but nasty stuff long-term. Hopefully
you won't need them.

 

The basics come easy. Airway seems fine, and she’s breathing okay despite the
faint. Blood pressure sucks, but that’s the way of things. Good news is foxes
have a pretty shallow Cephalic just over the elbow, and, out like she is,
there’s no pain or wriggling to contend with. The needle pops in, and you’ve got
saline flowing. Probably still bleeding, but if she’s been here as long as it
looks, it can’t be fast. As long as you don’t move her that shouldn’t change.
Mercury thermometer reads 96.5 from the mouth. If you’re lucky, maybe her core
is a degree or two warmer than that. Not great for a fox, but not lethal, at
least so long as she doesn’t get any colder.

 

Presently Shan strikes a flint. Somewhere below the brahmin bay, and the loft
creaks again under Charlie’s weight, and then Jack’s. You look up to the yellow
tongue for firelight.

 

“Careful. We can’t just burn this up here or--”

 

But Shan’s already banging open the window with the butt of her gun.

 

“Doc, if I was stupid enough to suffocate myself with a fire, I’d have hurried
up and done it before you hired us. How's your guest? She know anything about
the area?"

 

"Out cold, thanks to you. Lucky you didn't give her a heart attack."

 

"You're welcome, Doc. But I guess next time somebody's got a gun on you I'll ask
if they really mean it before risking my hide for your ass. Now wake her up. We
don't have a ton of leads here."
