---

title: Silver Lining
genre: Historical Fantasy

---
1

 

It’s barely first light when you step into the lounge. The air is crisp. It
tastes of mist and diesel, and not as strange or frightening as you thought it
would. Hell, close your eyes and it could’a been any old Sunday. Could’a
finished rubbing out the sleep and looked up to find yourself stumbling up that
rutted dirt road to see Ol’ Steve, late frogs still chirping, and dawn faint on
the horizon. But there are no frogs. Somewhere far above propellers murmur, and
if you stand very still you can feel their resonance in the floor. You’re going
flying, but it’s different this time, even if you don’t feel it yet. No Steve.
No hot, bitter coffee or half-burnt pancakes, and only a hint of cigarette smoke
where the peaty smell of pipe tobacco should have been. No gruff handshake. No
good morning. No lesson.

 

No one at all, actually. Funny. By your watch you're three minutes late. Maybe
folks were right about this girl.

 

You don’t know a whole lot about her. Her file says she’s twenty-one, so a
couple years under you, and about as inexperienced as they come. ‘Course it
wasn’t like you had much of a record yourself, but Ol’ Steve had taught you to
fly good and proper. The heavy canvas jacket on your shoulders and leather
flying gloves aren’t just a game of dress-up. You’re the real deal, or Steve
wouldn’t have left you the airplane.

 

You pluck a copy of the paper from the counter and pace a little, brushing the
morning frost from your mustache and exaggerating a long-healed limp: You’re the
real deal. A fighter pilot, like in the moving pictures. And she’s a scared,
stupid kid in way over her head.

 

Word on the street was her parents helped her out to get here, or she knew
somebody high up. Wilder rumor claimed she was from Avalon. Of those, most said
she was a dog of some kind. A few said wolf. One held that she was some sort of
flamingo. You don’t put much stock in any of that, but one way or another,
you’ll have to set her straight.

 

The door rattles. You take a breath, wedge the paper up with your thumb, and
summon your sternest scowl. It’s not as good as Steve’s, but it’ll do.

 

“Where the hell have you been?”

 

Somehow your voice always comes out a little higher-pitched than you imagine.

 

“I didn’t sleep real well last night. Big day, you know.”

 

There’s a hint of apology in her voice, but less than you’d hoped. You look up
slowly, hoping it isn’t obvious you didn’t sleep much either.

 

“That ain’t an excuse,” you spit, looking up, “they depend on us to keep this
balloon afloat, and that means being ready to protect her at a moment’s--”

 

You’ll be damned; she’s a fucking border collie. Cute, too, particularly with
those flight goggles hanging in the V of her sheepskin jacket. You blink hard
and fake a cough.

 

“...notice. If we fuck up, people die, goods are lost, and dreams are crushed.
So when I say 0500 that ain’t a goddamn suggestion. You got that?”

 

Shit, that wasn’t half bad. It sounded almost like you knew what you were doing,
and her proud ears falter. Steve would have liked that.

 

“I understand. Sorry, sir. It won’t happen again.”

 

\_Sir. \_She called you \_sir.\_ You hate how good it feels. Ego bolstered, you
step forward and raise a hand to her. She slaps her paw in eagerly.

 

“Whitney,” she barks, looking confident again, “Whitney Latham.”

 

It's a firm shake, for someone without thumbs.

 

“Anon.”

 

She smiles wryly, showing a bit of canine tooth.

 

“Reckon I probably shouldn’t call you ‘Annie’, should I?”

 

“Reckon not.”

 

You wait for her to ask for pity and enough time for breakfast, but instead she
rocks on her heels and shoulders back through the door, stopping it with a boot
to wait for you.

 

“It’s the little blue twin engine it, right? In bravo-hangar?”

 

Blue? It’s naval camouflage, thank you very much. You decide not to press your
luck.

 

There aren’t many humans who can claim to know an Avalonian in honesty. Once,
over a beer, Steve claimed to have fucked one during his time on merchant
steamers, but he was a better instructor than he was a liar.

 

They’re an enigmatic lot, rarely seen beyond their archipelago’s treacherous
waters except to trade. And when they did, they brought things nobody had ever
seen before. At least that’s what Jack, bartender at The Last Piaster, had told
you.

 

But she seems "normal", for lack of a better word. Not much accent. Bit of a
shock to look at, but it’s easy to get past. Weird ankles, cute ears.... And
that bushy tail of hers: was it routed over the waistband or directly through
her khakis? You take the opportunity to indulge your curiosity, but you haven’t
quite figured it out by the time you sidle past her to pop the hatch to the
ventral catwalk.

 

Cold, wet air hits you like a day-old dish rag. The grip-stamped aluminum and
suspension wires run slick with autumn dew, and your jacket yields to frigid
tendrils around the wrists and collar. And then there’s the shimmy. Aircraft
have to be flexible. The bigger and faster they are the truer that is. Echo’s
enormous, and she’s no slouch.

 

The ventral catwalk, which is nearly as long as she is, sways like a carnival
ride. A few steps and you’ve got the suspension lines in a death grip. Echo’s
envelope opens up into a yawning cavern around you. Her taut, gray skin filters
the morning light like gossamer. Would it catch you if you fell, or would you
punch through? You press forward with false confidence. Fighter pilots aren’t
afraid of heights. You’re the real deal. You could sword fight on one of these
things. You turn back to Whitney, hoping to find her hesitating. Turns out she
isn’t giving you the pleasure.

 

Scarcely bothering with the wires, she stares up into the superstructure with a
wonder you haven’t felt since your were about twelve. A grin slides across her
muzzle as she studies the gas bags and tension lines, her breath flashing into
billows of steam and gathering on her whiskers as snow.

 

“Big, isn’t it?”

 

You press on, stepping carefully now that you know she isn’t watching.

 

“Big? It’s incredible! I could spend all day here! The size of those gas
cells.... What’s her total volume?”

 

“Well, across twenty cells...,”

 

You should know. You know what you’re doing, after all. But you don’t.

 

“...Enough. Enough flammable hydrogen haul us past where the seagulls dare.
They’re our life-blood--,”

 

“And we get to protect them,” she chirps. And thank god. \_Where seagulls dare?
\_Fuck, that was stupid; any luck and she wasn’t listening too close.

 

“This ain’t an easy job, kid.”

 

“Oh, I don’t reckon, else I’d have slept like a baby. Dawn patrol don’t sound
like much over civilization like this, but there’s a feeling I can’t quite
shake, ya’ know?”

 

You do know. It settled in your stomach around two in the morning, and so far
it’s only gotten more restless. But she shakes it as if shedding water.

 

“I’m fine, though, Cap’n. I’m sure I’ll feel better when we get in the air and I
got a job to do. Always feel better with a job.”

 

“Yeah? Well just stick with me and do as I say. Keep your head, and you’ll be
alright.”

 

“Can do, Cap’n.”

 

Hah. \_Captain.\_ Technically you were one any time you got behind the controls,
but nobody’s ever called you that before.

 

Bravo is the larger of Echo’s two hangars, broad at the mouth, and long enough
to launch or land something that needed a bit more airspeed than Echo herself
could provide. It was enough for small transport aircraft and some of the
longer-range observers. Perhaps a night-fighter, if one was a very good pilot.
You must be one, too, because you landed yours there, and after had needed only
two shots of whiskey. Squadron-lead Kaz told you that was less than usual.

 

The two of you enter into the recessed alcove that runs along the hangar’s port
side, damp morning wind crashing in waves over the deck not sixty feet from you.
The alcove, which serves as a flight line, is sheltered by a series of baffles
that Kaz had called “The Breakwater”, but even behind them the metal walls and
wooden floor run slick with streaks of slush and dew, and the broken gusts that
reach you gnaw like scavengers.

 

Whitney winces and flips the collar of her jacket up under her scarf. You make
like you’re used to it, but your nose and eyes burn as ice crystalizes in the
tender flesh around them, and your boots slip half-steps on patches of ice.
Together you stumble for the airplane.

 

She’s a P-73 Cormorant: an Eastern Aerodyne amphibian flying boat with a broad
fuselage and wings bent like a gull’s to clear her props from the waterline. A
cargo ship, really, but a slippery one. Steve had gotten her surplus from the
postal service and made a fighting machine out of her, and since then she’d seen
another ten years of border watch and one solid fight she still bore scars from.
She was heavy and a bit outdated, but a flexible airplane for a flexible
vagabond like you. Besides, it hadn’t stopped Steve painting a few silhouettes
on her bow. Of course, this was Steve who claimed he’d fucked an Avalonian.

 

“She’s pretty!” Whitney muses, ducking for shelter under the lee-side wing. It
wasn’t the term you’d have picked, but it makes you smile and drives some of the
cold away. You stop short of the ladder, trying to remember something Steve told
you long ago.

 

“She sure is. But remember, Kid: It’s a lot better to be down and wishing you
were up than up and wishing you were down. I know it doesn’t seem important, but
before every flight--”

 

“I do know how to fly, you know?”

 

She ducks out from under the horizontal stabilizer and runs a blunted claw along
the elevator hinge, looking a little hurt.

 

“Also, your trim jackscrew is pretty rusty. Will you work the trim for me real
quick? Don’t know about you, but I’d rather it not get stuck, myself.”

 

You flinch. The trim jackscrew is shrouded part way into the skin of the
stabilizer. Usually you just feel to make sure it’s in there.

 

“I’ve, uh, had my eye on it.”

 

“Yeah, well, all the same....”

 

“No, no. You’re right. We should check.”

 

You scurry up the ladder and haul yourself over the cockpit frame, leaving the
canvas covering open behind you. You grab the trim wheel and cross your fingers.
Any luck and it won’t stick, or you’ll come up with a good excuse before it
does.

 

“Okay, Run it forward?”

 

You do as you’re told, and seize the moment to straighten out the thought that’s
been bugging you:

 

\_Alright, so she knows what she’s doing. She’s still in over her head, right?
She needs you, and you need her to listen to you.\_ \_Now’s not the time to look
weak.\_

 

It sounds good when you put it that way, and you push out the nagging feeling
that this masquerade could be a greenhorn mistake of its own. The trim wheel
sticks a little toward its bottom stop. You grimace.

 

“Other way?”

 

You flick it back. It catches a little and frees itself again. She mutters
something skeptical, but her voice is dull behind the aluminum.

 

“I’ll start in here if you finish up out there, alright?”

 

“So long as you trust me, Cap’n. She’s your ship.”

 

“Gonna’ have to trust you. Reckon I might as well start now.”

 

Despite the cold and tight quarters, the worn leather of the left seat wraps you
in the same-old blanket of sights, sounds and smells:

 

The ragged whir of the gyros.

 

The warm amber of the oil pressure warning light.

 

The sweet, smokey flavors of leather, oil, fuel, and dew.

 

You could even taste a hint of the sweetgrass that grew along the the strip
behind Steve’s place, and a faint whiff of that peaty pipe smoke.

 

It was like every other time time, straight back to the very first when your
eyes had shown so bright and wide as the first rays of dawn fell across the
matted sod. You’d been no older than sixteen, but even then it had seemed so
familiar. You’d dug and dug for the memory it belonged to but you’d never found
it, even though some mornings you could swear it was hanging on the tip of your
tongue.

 

But it’s warm, safe feeling. A sense of belonging you’d never found anywhere or
with anyone else. And that you felt it at all is proof enough:

 

You are who you think you are.

 

You’re meant to do what you feel you are.

 

\_You are the real deal.\_

 

The pit in your stomach eases up for the first time since it started that
morning.

 

A knock on the glass brings you back to reality as the last switch on the
checklist snaps under your finger. You startle a little and look up to find
Whitney’s muzzle propped up over the side of the window.

 

“Jackscrew’s sticky, but it’ll do for today. I’ll take care of it when we get
back. Other than that, we’ve got fifty-two gallons in each tank, no water. Ten
quarts of oil left, nine and a half right. Control surfaces free and correct.
How’s the weather?”

 

Ah, shit. Weather.

 

“Come on in and we’ll go over it.”

 

She nods dutifully and drops away from the window again. You flick the radio on;
it comes to life with a champagne cork pop and a crackle of static. Suddenly
you’re nervous.

 

You’re used to talking with Al, who runs the little observation “tower” back
home. Al’s alright. You’ve had beers with Al.

 

But this is a real airship control deck. They won’t be patient, or appreciate
niceties, and you’d rather not make a fool of yourself on the radio with Whitney
there to hear it. Sighing, you think back to what Steve had taught you in the
beginning, and conjure the most professional voice you can manage.

 

“Echo Weather, Screamin’ Eagle.”

 

God damn you regretted writing that down as your callsign on the sign-up form
when you shipped. Turns out you’re supposed to earn those, like Tucker
“Whirligig” Riley, who’d suffered an unfortunate incident trying to hand-prop
his little biplane. Fortunately the radio comes to life before you can hate
yourself any more for it.

 

“Mornin’ Squawkin’ Bird. Echo weather...,”

 

The transmission stays hot for a slurp of coffee.

 

“...what can I do for ‘yeh?”

 

You stumble, but find the voice again.

 

“Launch and escort brief.”

 

“Mmm, well we’ve got about a two-degree skid going, and at sixty knots... ‘Gonna
be about two knots of shear when you clear the hangar.”

 

Another sip.

 

“‘N after that, we got some thin fog outside, but I reckon it burns off within
the hour. No major convection between here and Norfolk. Anything else I can do
for ‘yeh?”

 

“Altitude?”

 

“We read six thousand five hundred with 29.78 inches on the barometer. Freezing
level’s somewhere around eight thousand, but I reckon the hangar venturi has
probably picked up a bit of ice already.”

 

“29.78. Thanks. Shall I contact launch control?”

 

“Yeh can if ‘ya want, but yeh just ‘gonna get me again. Still the night shift
over here.”

 

“Then I’m departing Bravo-Hangar.”

 

“Good hunting, mate.”

 

The radio pops off. Hopefully he’s not serious about the “hunting” part. Surely
he isn't. You’re still on the east coast. You’ve lived here all your life.
Things are stable.

 

Presently Whitney hauls herself over the window frame and tumbles in beside you,
tail catching you across the face in the process. She doesn’t seem to notice as
she shuffles about looking for a place to slot it in, finally folding it behind
her and tucking it between her seat and the quilted wall. Even still, the narrow
cabin pinches you together at the hips and shoulders. “Getting Intimate”, Steve
had called it. Between the two of them, it was no question who you’d prefer to
be intimate with. Because she’s lighter, and you’ll have better climb
performance. Yeah. That’s why.

 

Surely she’s used to it too, but one of her ears flicks bashfully nonetheless.

 

“You, uh, aren’t allergic, are you Cap’n?”

 

Your brain trips over itself. You actually \_are\_ allergic to dogs, come to
think of it. Are you allergic to her? \_Doesn’t matter. Don’t look weak.\_

 

“I don’t think so.”

 

She smiles and settles back into the seat quilting. A bit more of her weight
settles on your shoulder. It’s not unwelcome. You fish out a checklist.

 

\_Battery\_

 

\*\*Off\*\*

 

\_Magnetos\_

 

\*\*Off\*\*

 

\_Mixture\_

 

\*\*Cutoff\*\*

 

\_Throttle\_

 

\*\*Idle\*\*

 

\_Tank Selector\_

 

\*\*Both\*\*

 

You turn to your co-pilot. She catches on quickly.

 

“She crank-start, Cap’n?”

 

“Yeah. Inboard side of the engine cowl, top of the wing.”

 

She nods and stands back up in her seat.

 

“Also, might want to shut that radio. The alternator current will jump when I
drop the starter. Fries ‘em sometimes. I know some people think it’s an old
wive’s tale, but I seen it happen.”

 

“That so?”

 

“That’s so, Cap’n.”

 

Again you do as you’re told. There’s a scratching as her claws blunt across the
aluminum, the thud of an elbow, and then the howl of the wind gives way to to
the slow-building whine of the inertial starter.

 

“Listen,” she rasps, working the crank, “I want you to know I really appreciate
you taking me on like this.... I know I’m probably a little greener than you
were expecting.... And I sure as hell ain’t your kind....”

 

She grunts, rocking the airplane with the effort.

 

“...Maybe they didn’t give you a whole lot of choice, but I ain’t heard you
complain about it neither. An’ that means a lot ot me....”

 

Her breathing gets easier as the whine builds into a howl.

 

“...It’s my first time doin’ this sort of thing; I’m sure they told ‘ya. An’ I
don’t look like much, but if you promise to set me straight when I screw up, I
swear I’ll give it hell and make it worth your while, okay?”

 

“That so?”

 

“That’s so, Cap’n. Maybe there’s somethin’ you gotta teach me sometimes, but
then I’ll learn, yeah?”

 

She thrusts her free paw back into the cabin. You shake firmly. It makes you
feel warm all over.

 

“You got a deal, Kid.”

 

She turns away again, her tail betraying her with a bit of a wag.

 

“All set here, Cap’n.”

 

You drop a hand to the throttle quadrant.

 

\_Mixture\_

 

\*\*Rich\*\*

 

\_Throttle\_

 

\*\*Open\*\*

 

\_Battery\_

 

\*\*On\*\*

 

\_Primer\_

 

.,.actually it’s better to stroke the throttle a few times. The primer sucks.

 

“Set here, Kid.”

 

“Contaaaaact!”

 

\_Magneto\_

 

\*\*On\*\*

 

“Contact!”

 

The starter moans. The prop turns. The engine coughs. You jockey the throttle
and mix. \_Come on, don’t fuck this up in front of Whitney. Not after that whole
speech she gave you.\_

 

It coughs again, then barks.

 

\_Lean the mixture a little. You’re at altitude.\_

 

Bark. Pop. Clatter.

 

\_A little less.\_

 

The bark and whir turns over and churns into thunder. You’re in business.

 

\_Tach\_

 

\_Manifold\_

 

\_Oil Pressure\_

 

\_Oil Temperature\_

 

\*\*Green, green, green, and warming.\*\*

 

You make the other side ready, wincing under the sudden pressure of Whitney’s
hindpaws on your lap.

 

“‘Scuse me Cap’n.”

 

Then it’s the same song and dance again: magneto, throttle, mix, contact. This
time you get it by the second revolution instead of the fourth, and as the prop
settles into a rhythmic thrum Whitney drops in beside you again, white patches
of her fur stained black with carbon and smelling of half-burnt fuel. Somehow
it’s no less soft when she brushes against you again to button down the canvas.
You pretend not to notice, and make a show of watching the oil temperature
gauges edge into their green arks. They’re about there by the time she’s settled
in, ears folded back awkwardly against the clatter of the props. She fiddles
with wires a moment, then jams a probe from each of them into the sockets under
the panel and ducks into a metallic headband that presents her muzzle with a
microphone.

 

“You read me, Cap’n?”

 

The intercom squelches the dimension out of most everyone’s voice, but somehow
you can still hear the eagerness in hers.

 

“Loud and clear, Kid. You?”

 

“Loud and clear. You got a brief for me?”

 

“Know how to handle a radio?”

 

“‘Course! ‘...least Avalonian syntax, but I reckon it ain’t that different.”

 

“Then I want you on that and keeping an eye out for any bogeys. Reckon we
identify most anyone out here, but it’s better to call a false alarm than miss a
threat.”

 

“Can do!”

 

You’re about to go for the throttle, but you hang on what the weather guy said,
and your hand falls short.

 

\_Good Hunting.\_

 

“Hey, Whitney?”

 

“Yeah?”

 

“You know how to shoot?”

 

“Rifles? Sure. Bro and I used to have contests back in the day, ‘till he got
sore about me winnin’. Plus varments and such. Not a lot of big game in Avalon.”

 

“How about an M2 Browning?”

 

You indicate over your shoulder toward the open-air turret nestled behind the
main wing. She glances behind her and then back, eyebrow perhaps raised. You
hear her hesitate.

 

“Yeah, I think I can do that.”

 

“Ain’t a question of what you think, Kid.”

 

“I can do it.”

 

“Good.”

 

You pay the gauges one last glance, and edge the throttle forward. The rumble of
the props and engines smooth and the wheels lurch into motion. Your breathing
shallows and eyes widen. The second you clear the Breakwater it’ll be 60 knot
winds out of nowhere. Turn too shallow and you’ll get pulled right around. Maybe
the wind gets under the wing and flips you. Too fast and you blunder into the
far wall.

 

You’ve done this once before, when you shipped, to qualify, but only once.

 

\_Two shots of whiskey. Less than usual.\_

 

You pull the yoke into your lap, roll the aileron into the wind, and push the
balls to the wall. The wheels bump over the threshold and the wind strikes the
fuselage like a sledgehammer. Already the yaw’s slipping, and then slipping the
other way as the wind catches the vertical stabilizer. Don’t let it go too far!
Hard on the rudder! The upwind wing wrenches one of the landing gear from the
ground but you force it down again with the aileron and catch the slewing tail
with another stroke of rudder.

 

Yoke forward! Get the stabilizer in the air!

 

The nose comes forward, and the shimmy snaps out into an orderly weathervane.
For a moment you’re treading water, held stationary by the howling wind. But the
engines roar and surge and strain and bit by bit you ease forward.

 

\_Sixty-six knots.\_

 

\_Seventy.\_

 

\_Seventy-five_.

 

The hangar walls slide, then roll, and then race by. The sky rushes forth to
meet you, and the wheels give one last jolt as you cross the threshold and fall
away. The sick feeling of falling pours in to your gut as you claw for the last
few knots you need to fly, wings skipping on stall-buffet like broken records
and you feet flailing on the rudder to hold them level.

 

Let the airplane roll, and you’ll spin.

 

Spin, and you’ll die.

 

Ease the nose down.

 

\_Eighty knots_.

 

And back up.

 

And like that it's over as quickly as it started. You’re coasting up alongside
Echo’s great, silver flank so close it seems you could run your hand along her,
and as the adrenaline recedes, you catch Whitney spending the last of her breath
on a protracted cheer. She’s white-knuckling the hand rail on her right and has
her left paw pinned on your thigh, muzzle plastered with a manic grin you’d
thought limited to horror flicks.

 

“Anon, that was incredible!”

 

“Always is.”

 

Your voice, despite your best efforts, comes breathlessly.

 

As you crest the dorsal structure you settle back and level out, watching the
last of the morning dew slide from the windows and paying a quick wave to the
man in the dorsal observation dome as you drift by it. The fog is gone within
the hour, and in its place a crisp, autumn morning spreads like the pages of a
children’s book. The sky is sharp and clear save a few billows of icy-looking
cumulus to the east, so perfect and fluffy they seem painted. The cold fades
under the onslaught of hot, parched air spilling from the heater manifolds, and
with it you relax the rest of the way.

 

It really is just \_flying_.

 

Whitney settles against you, or perhaps you against her, and together you watch
North Carolina drift by like a moving picture. Farms glow gold with wheat and
green with corn and tobacco. Wave crests glitter like fool’s gold, and the
beaches catch alight with the pale burn of the sun.

 

And for the second time in your life that first-time feeling hits you: that
sense that the whole world was built just for today, and that you were born to
see it. It was the kind of thing that made you wonder if Ol’ Steve was right to
put his faith in God, but god, to your knowledge, was not a pilot. No, if this
was here because somebody wanted you to see it, you were pretty sure it was
Steve, himself.

 

“Hey, Kid?”

 

“Somethin’ I can do for ya, Cap’n?”

 

You turn and find Whitney scratching at her kneeboard with a pen, wild grin
replaced with an easy smile.

 

“How long you wanted to do this sort of thing?”

 

She snorts and reclines a few inches further into her seat.

 

“Shit, I ‘dunno. Forever? Ranch had an airstrip as long as I been around. Dad
used it for crop dusting and got into racing after a spell, and then a bit ‘a
design. It’s part of who we are. I guess my bro didn’t take to it quite like I
did, but I don’t reckon there’s much any other way I could’a turned out. I ain’t
complainin’ neither, so I never gave it much thought, ya’ know?

 

“Yeah, yeah, I get that. How long you been flying?”

 

Her eyes roll back as she tabulates something with taps of paw pads on her
thigh.

 

“Uh, maybe fourteen years? Give or take one? Depends on if you count dad’s lap
as flying proper; couldn’t reach the pedals m’self.”

 

Shit, that’s nearly twice as long as you, and you can’t help a little jealousy
in picturing it. You’d never known your father. Something had happened. You
never could get anyone to give you the details, but whatever it was was grim
business. Your uncle looked after you in the beginning. Good guy, but out of his
depth. In the end you’d raised yourself on books, model airplanes, and the bb
gun he scraped to get you for Christmas that one year. That was it until you
started working for Steve; still, here you were. And here she was calling you
“Captain.” Maybe she won’t ask.

 

“What about you, Cap’n?”

 

If she’d asked in the lounge that morning you’d have lied, but now you can’t
make yourself do it.

 

“Seven years,” you swallow. She snorts again.

 

“Well I guess I can’t be \_that\_ much greener ‘n you, huh? Unless you’re one of
those guys who grabbed an airplane and jumped in blind, but you don’t fly like
it. ‘Sides, way I hear, those guys rarely make it through their first year in
this kinda’ work.”

 

“Yeah? Well, so what if I ain’t?”

 

She shrugs, laughing

 

“Then I guess I ain’t much greener. But fair’s fair, Cap’n. She’s your ship, ‘n
you fly her just fine. I’m just some kid who got lucky. I reckon I handle a
stick and rudder pretty good, but that don’t mean I know my tail from a
rattlesnake’s ass doing much anything else. Certainly not making any kinda real
money at it.”

 

As the morning wears on, the beaches sprout kites like mustard weed and chains
of iridescent motor cars take to the roads. Here and there the green sod of an
aerodrome drifts by, smart little airplanes flitting in and out like starlings.
Whitney calls them dutifully, but bandits and pirates don’t fly little yellow
biplanes around the heart of the Eastern Union.

 

The two of you speak sporadically. Evidently she likes a little cream in her
coffee, and played baseball for a few years way back when. Her brother runs a
shrimp boat, and knows how to cook the fuckers \_just right_, too, but she’s
still a way better shot than he is. She thinks your country is beautiful, and
maybe she’s been a little homesick, but she’ll get over it, you know?

 

You tell her a little yourself, too: about the model airplanes and the bb gun,
and that you like your coffee black, like your uncle said your father did. About
how shrimp is a stupid fish and it’s all about smoked salmon, and you’re not
such a bad shot yourself, and maybe you’ll have to show her how it’s done
sometime.

 

But she doesn’t stop calling you “Cap’n”, and it doesn’t stop giving you that
warm feeling.

 

At the top of the fifth hour your shift is about up, which is good given your
fuel is running a bit peaked, and the cramp in the base of your spine is really
starting to kill. The sun hangs high overhead and casts Echo in a shark-like
two-tone of light and shade. It’s warm in the bright parts, enough to sweat even
with the heaters off. Whitney glances over to you, whiskers drooping a little
and eyes squinted against the glare.

 

“Shifts always this long?”

 

“They break it up a little more out at sea, and in riskier areas. Here though,
yeah. Five hours, and mostly one airplane at a time.”

 

She cocks her head, watching the tidewater and estuaries drift by below.

 

“Why do you figure they even bother with escorts ‘round here? This is your home
base; what could happen?”

 

You honestly hadn’t questioned it. You shrug.

 

“Practice, I reckon. Or to make sure we can work together.”

 

The guess doesn’t seem to satisfy her.

 

“I heard we’re dealing with some pretty exotic cargo, but I couldn’t get shit
from anyone about what. Think that might be to do with it?”

 

You shake your head doubtfully.

 

“A lot of fiction and falsehood in a place like this. You talk to that Tucker
kid? Swears he saw an Airwhale out in the Oklahoma territory. I wouldn’t take
anything you hear in there as fact.”

 

“Still, they ain’t told us what we’re going to Norfolk for. Gotta’ reckon
there’s a reason they ain’t.”

 

“I ‘dunno. Maybe.”

 

“...But yeah, you don’t reckon anything’ll happen ‘round here, right?”

 

There’s some anxiety in her voice; it’s clear she’s been thinking about it. You
flash back to that morning:

 

\_Good hunting.\_

 

“Nah, Kid. We’ll be fine. Most voyages they go the whole way without engaging
anyone; it’s just those aren’t usually the ones you hear about.”

 

“That what the Browning’s for? Nothing?”

 

“Better to be prepared. Didn’t think you were signing up for a flying club,
did’ja? Signed the same paper I did.”

 

She shakes her head and her voice evens out again.

 

“Yeah, yeah. I know. It just all seems so perfect, almost like it really is just
a flying club, only then it gets quiet for awhile and you get to thinkin’ about
why you’re really there. That something might really, ya’ know, \_happen_. But
if it does, it does, right? That’s what we’re here for. Kick the asses of any
sorry motherfuckers stupid enough to come for Echo, right?”

 

She’s forcing it, but there’s some genuine bravado in the depths of her voice.
With a hint of shame, you have to admit to yourself it makes you feel a bit
better too.

 

“Yeah, that’s why we're here. And she may not look like it, but Echo’s bristling
with guns. Any chucklefucks come around, and it’ll be a race to see who can
paint the most silhouettes on their hull.

 

“Hah. Yeah.”

 

“Yeah.”

 

There’s a moment of silence, but she turns back to you.

 

“...can I ask you somethin’, Cap’n?”

 

Your stomach tightens. You’d hoped not to dwell on the matter.

 

“Yeah?”

 

“You ever shoot anyone down?”

 

“No.”

 

“You ever been shot at?”

 

“Once.”

 

“Well, I ain’t done either.”

 

“First time for everything, ain’t there?”

 

“Reckon so.”

 

You hear her swallow, and so do you. But she shakes again, and the smile comes
back as you settle onto approach for the hangar, Ech looming overhead like a sky
all her own and prodding you with jolts of wake turbulence. You sigh a tired
sigh, realizing in the process that your sinuses are in fact a bit stopped up.

 

2

 

The jackscrew should have been easy: Loosen the cable turnbuckle, pop out the
screw, clean and oil, and reinstall. That’s how it would have gone, too, only
the turnbuckle had gotten itself wedged up against the aft cabin bulkhead and
jammed the whole lot of it. That was a thirty second fix if you had X-ray
vision, but the best you had was a little mirror on a stick. It had taken all
the vulgarity either of you knew to straighten things out, and by the time you’d
finished, Echo had pulled into Norfolk and set to a listless hover.

 

It’s late afternoon now. The sun sags low over the Grand Tidewater Aerodrome and
stains the fresh-cut grass the color of mustard weed.

 

Whitney’s made quick work of moving in. When you’d stepped into the shower there
wasn’t much to the room but a narrow porthole and a pair of bunks, but from then
until you traded with her she’s managed to plaster her half in a scrapbook of
trinkets and cellophane tape. It’s pictures, mostly: old photographs, postcards,
and a couple illustrations not quite big enough to make out from where you’re
laying. A paper airplane rests on the end table under the window, and over her
bed hang a record jacket and a travel poster for a place called Port Dyson.

 

The jacket you might recognize. It’s pale blue and features a rough-looking
coyote leaned back in the shade of his stetson hat, six-gun on his hip and a
notch out of an ear.

 

\_Josey Robins - Open Sky\_

 

You could swear you’ve heard the name before, but not a lot of Avalonian music
makes it across the ocean.

 

That’s not all, though. You don’t like to think of yourself as a snoop, and
you’ve been doing your damndest not to, but the longer the shower runs the more
your eyes wander to the leather-bound journal she left open on the bedspread.
Her handwriting is fast and sloppy, but you recognize your name on the left
page. The right seems to have something sketched in it, but she snaps the cover
shut before you can work out what.

 

“How’s about you mind your damn business, huh Cap’n?”

 

Her words are backed by a piercing glare, no less effective for the bedraggled,
dripping fur and the towel wrapped around her.

 

“Sorry.”

 

“Bullshit y’are. Now you ‘gonna look away, or you fixin’ to watch me change,
too?”

 

It hadn’t occurred to you, but the disgust hits home anyway. You obey as
casually as you can and her towel drops to the floor with a muted thud, only to
be replaced by the yelp of a zipper before you can think of anything witty to
say.

 

“Thanks,” she says. To your relief, she sounds genuine.

 

You turn back to find her wearing a pair of faded jeans and a fresh flannel
shirt. It’s red this time, and free of the stains that decorate the one she’d
worn flying. She’s rolled the sleeves back to the elbow and left the collar
undone, revealing a bit more fur and a silver chain bearing a spent rifle casing
and a wooden charm in the shape of a barn swallow. A bit of chest, too, but
you’re quick to hide your interest. She doesn’t call you on it, and instead
flops nosily into her bunk and joins you in staring at the ceiling.

 

“...Hey, I didn’t mean to get snippy. It’s just I ain’t ever had to share a room
before. Kinda’ used to privacy.”

 

\_Rich kids_.

 

“You’ll get over it. Worked on the railroad a couple years back; we slept six to
a barrack. Give it a few days and you’ll be too lazy to be self-conscious.”

 

“Don’t get me wrong, Cap’n. I been campin’ n’ huntin’ plenty; it ain’t so bad
with family, or a good-sized crew. This is just a little different, you know?
It’s a bit more intimate. Besides, we're ‘gonna be here awhile, I don’t know you
so good, n’ well, you’re a \_human--._”

 

“The fuck is \_that\_ supposed to mean?”

 

The hurt in your voice surprises you, but you blurt it before you can stop
yourself. She flicks an ear.

 

“It’s nothing. I didn’t mean that.”

 

“Yeah? Well your rack is your space. All yours and only yours.”

 

“I get’cha, Cap’n...;”

 

She hesitates, paying the record jacket a glance that suggests it embarasses her
a little.

 

“...you, uh, don’t mind the decoratin’ do ‘ya?”

 

“It’s fine, Kid.”

 

The silence gets tense fast, especially since you can’t help but notice her
keeping an eye on you. With flying and even the jackscrew there was an easy
camaraderie to things: You traded stories. She explained how the term
“flea-breedin’” could be stylized as a verb or noun, and meant something
approximate to your “motherfucking” or “motherfucker”. Bar and hangar talk, like
you were old friends. But now something’s got her on edge.

 

And she’s right, it isn’t like your railroad buddies. You need to trust each
other, even if she’s more experienced on the stick than you. Even if you’re a
\_human_, like she said. You look back to find her sketching in the journal but
think better than to ask her what.

 

“What’s your deal, Kid? Everything was hunky-dory when we were flying. What’cha
keep looking at me like that for? I ain’t gonna spy on you or whatever, I
promise.”

 

She sighs and sits up on an elbow, flipping the journal back over a knee.

 

“It’s like I said. Feel better when I have a job.”

 

“Something to do with me being a filthy human?”

 

“Forget it, okay? I shouldn’t have said it. All that stuff I said on the wing
stands.”

 

“Even though you’ve been flying longer?”

 

She cocks her head and her eyes narrow.

 

“This some kind of a test, Cap’n? ‘Cause I don’t appreciate it. If you don’t
trust me, you can say it to my face.”

 

“Same to you, Kid. No one’s trying to put one over on you; I promise.”

 

“Yeah...,”

 

She rocks to her feet again and paces over to the window to stare down at
airfield lights.

 

“...well, maybe you ain’t.”

 

“Then what do you know that I don’t?”

 

“Nothing,” she grunts, “that’s the problem. We been here how many hours? And I
all I see is one truck and not hide nor hair of cargo. There’s somethin’ weird
going on, Cap’n. A reason they’re keeping quiet. I’m tellin’ ‘ya. I got a
\_bad\_ feeling, and I’ve learned to listen to mine.”

 

“They’re probably just hung up on some administrative bullshit. How would you
know this ain’t normal, anyway?”

 

“Every piece of cargo from every freight forwarder? \_And\_ we don’t know where
we’re going? Cap’n, I grew up watching airships load. Bro and I would bike down
to the aerodrome to see ‘em off. It ain’t like this...,”

 

She trails off to scan the field again.

 

“...Who the hell doesn’t tell their escorts where they’re going? How are we
supposed to know what to expect? What weather, let alone threats? What good
could it do to keep us in the dark?”

 

You have to admit it puts a bit of a lump in your throat to hear her say it.

 

“Relax, Kid. Reckon they’ll tell us once we’re underway.”

 

If only you were as certain as you’d managed to sound. You’d been telling
yourself you just don’t know the ropes, but it really \_doesn’t\_ make much
sense. Whitney rocks on her heels and flops back into her rack.

 

“Really? It don’t strike you odd at all? Shit, Cap’n, I swear this place even
smells off.”

 

Presently she fishes a silver flask from a bag at the head of her bunk, and in a
long, fluid motion pops the cap, takes a swig, and screws it shut again. A
shiver runs up from the base of her tail and makes her ears and whiskers droop a
little. Then she rolls to offer it to you, smelling freshly of scotch whiskey.
Maybe you aren’t hiding your nerves as well as you think.

 

“To sketchy first times, Cap’n?”

 

You almost second-guess yourself, but fetch it from her anyway.

 

“Reckon a toast ‘fore getting underway is probably good luck or something,
right, Kid?”

 

“Worth a shot, ain’t it?”

 

You nod and take a swig.

 

“To sketchy first times.”

 

She smiles weakly.

 

“And maybe a little adventure?”

 

“Maybe a little.”

 

You settle back against the wall and let the warmth from the liquor work its way
up from your stomach up into your face. Whitney keels over and shuts her eyes.

 

“Wake me for supper, won’t ‘cha, Cap’n?”

 

“Yeah.”

 

You set your watch and join her, burying your nerves in the booze. It feels a
bit better to have her there, and this time sleep comes easily.

 

3

 

"Hey, Anon."

 

You're jolted from an unpleasant dream where you were a kid again being chased
by your Uncle's asshole Emu. Your mind skips a few beats as it spins back up and
you try to swipe the Emu away, but you catch Whitney across the muzzle.

 

"Damnit, Cap'n! This is serious!"

 

She slugs you in the shoulder.

 

"What the fuck, Whitney?!"

 

You swat back blindly and miss.

 

"...we under attack or somethin'?"

 

\_"I don't know," \_she spits, \_"Something's happening."\_

 

"...is it dinner?"

 

You regret your tone as she slides into focus. She's scared. Suddenly you are,
too.

 

"What is it, Kid?"

 

"They locked the door."

 

"What door?"

 

\_"Our door! \_I was half asleep when I hear this electric whir and the latch
snaps! Reckoned it couldn't be what I thought it was, but I try the door and
sure enough...."

 

She wrenches at the door handle; it doesn't budge. Her eyes turn wild as she
struggles with it and the pit drops back into your stomach. Finally she pries
her hand away and stalks to the porthole. You follow, quickening your step as
she waves for you.

 

Night has settled damp and heavy. A fine, swirling mist sparkles like tinsel in
the pale glare of floodlights. In the islands of light men and trucks move with
ardent purpose. They heft metal casks and hold strange, slender rifles at low
ready. You spot a Willy's Jeep and what you're pretty sure is a tank, but
there's no sign of unit marks or even branch or country.

 

"...finally loading, huh?"

 

"I'll say. Still betting on that administrative hang-up?"

 

"Fine, Kid. You win."

 

"...we've got to get out of here, Cap'n."

 

The desperation in her voice is unmistakable.

 

"Take it easy. We'll figure it out."

 

"Figure \_what\_ out? Any idiot could tell you this ain't normal!"

 

She swears and paces away again, teeth clicking between syllables.

 

"We're their armed guard, aren't we? What's so goddamn important they need the
army here, and so goddamn secret they do it unmarked? Cap'n, they've got us
\_caged \_like \_animals._..."

 

Her voice and steps waver between anger and fear; her tail switches like a
housecat's. The nagging adrenaline is starting to sour your stomach, but you put
on your best brave face and contort your muscles to fit. The next time she
passes you snag her by the paw. She whirls as if you snap at you. Teeth half
bared, she stares you down like a wild animal. You hold on. She's shaking. You
squeeze.

 

"Kid, look at me."

 

She's staring into your soul as it is, but what else could you say?

 

"Eaaaasy. So maybe you're right about the cargo. It's something very important,
and it ain't any business of ours. Alright. And maybe this is a bit excessive.
But I promise you: they wouldn't hire a bunch of fighter pilots just to lock 'em
up and murder them. There's some kind of sense to this. We'll figure it out. I
promise."

 

She sighs. For a moment she seems to settle, but then she shakes her head and
rips her paw free to root through her bag.

 

"Well, I ain't waitin' to find out."

 

"Whitney--"

 

"I said I ain't waitin'!"

 

She turns back, this time drawing a heavy, chrome revolver. Thumbing the hammer,
she levels it on the door handle.

 

"Whitney!"

 

"Might want to plug your ears, Cap'n."

 

"Jesus, Whitney! Wait!"

 

She looks at you quizzically, keeping the weapon trained.

 

"I said we'd figure it out," you continue, finding your voice, "If it's really
that bad, we're going to need a better plan than blowing the door off and
running."

 

"And how bad do you think it is, huh? You reckon they did this for fucking
laughs? This would never happen on an Avalonian airship."

 

"I reckon they're just being a little too cautious. So the cargo's a big deal.
So what? They're paying us a hell of a lot to be here, and they aren't paying us
to ask questions. I ain't ready to go to war with them over this just yet."

 

"This ain't the kind of thing you can just do to folk, Cap'n. It's wrong. This
would never stand--"

 

"Back home?"

 

"Yeah...," She trails off, stifling a growl, "But Cap'n, they didn't even
\_tell\_ us."

 

"You don't know that. We were asleep."

 

Finally some of the fire leaves her eyes. She decocks the hammer and collapses
back on her rack, still shaking.

 

"I need to get out of here," she whimpers. If she'd been trying to hide her
fear, it betrayed her. You sit on the edge of her bed.

 

“Tell you what: how’s about you and I sit here and watch the door. They try
anything funny and we’ve got the drop on them; then it’s just a quick slip and a
dash to the hangar and we’re home free. If we’re lucky, Echo’s gained some
altitude by then and we’ll have a much safer launch than we would way down here.
Either way, let’s give it ‘till at least supper before we make pirates of
ourselves, okay?”

 

“Yeah. Okay. Just really rubs my fur against the grain, being trapped like this.
Probably think I’m crazy.”

 

“Only a little crazy. We’ll do some snooping as soon as we get the chance. Have
a better idea, then.”

 

“You promise?”

 

“‘Course.”

 

The dinner hour chimes somewhere from behind a fog of sleep and nerves. By your
watch, it’s nearly ten-thirty. No wonder you’re starving. Whitney’s leaned up
against your shoulder, but you can tell she isn’t sleeping. The revolver rests
on her thigh under the weight of a paw and she stares at the door with predatory
focus. Her ears prick nearly to the tips as they scan the dead air for
information.

 

“The door latch went five and a half minutes ago, about two minutes before the
dinner bell.”

 

She taps matter-of-factly at a brass timepiece resting in her lap.

 

“Five minutes? I’m amazed you aren’t already out there shaking the skipper down
for answers.”

 

“I said it was driving me crazy, being trapped like that. Not that it was
driving me stupid.”

 

You swallow the urge to ask if she’s sure about that. Maybe she notices.

 

“I don’t want to talk about it, alright? Let’s get some grub, and keep our eyes
and ears open. Figure we’ll act like we never noticed anything and see if they
bring it up. How’s that sound?”

 

“Sounds good, Kid.”

 

“Good.”

 

She rubs an eye with the pack of her paw and slips the revolver into a holster
on her hip.

 

“...got a gun, don’t you, Cap’n?”

 

“I said I ain’t goin’ to war.”

 

She eyes you skeptically as you slip your jacket off the rack and shoulder it
on.

 

“Ooh, sneaky, aren’t you?”

 

She waves her paw like a divining rod, then strikes you in the chest. Her
toenail blunts against the handgun tucked behind your brest pocket.

 

“I can smell the cordite. Hopefully we won’t need ‘em, huh?”

 

“We won’t.”

 

The door opens without a hitch.

 

The trek from your cabin to Echo’s starboard crew mess doesn’t involve the
ventral catwalk. Lucky you.

 

The corridors in the superstructure over the midship gondola are tight, but
well-appointed. Thin wood trim plates cold, circle-cut aluminum, and
noisily-patterned carpet gives gently underfoot. It’s like a picture from a
cruise ad almost, and as you follow the little brass signs it’s everything you
can do to suppress a creeping sense of
[disconnected/oblivious/word-meaning-fat-and-happy] privilege. You slip through
the sliding door, that control is all but rent from you.

 

 

The air runs thick and savory with the smells of steak and bread, and across
each table spreads a smart, white cloth folded neatly at the corners. It’s the
sort of place you haven’t the manners or the money for. It makes your skin
crawl, but Whitney seems to settle. Her fur is in order and her ears at ease.
She leads you to a two-place table in front of the windows and sits, folding a
napkin in her lap with a peculiar, practiced poise. You hurry to copy her,
hoping to god it’s not one of those things only women are supposed to do. She
smirks, but she doesn’t laugh. Good. A smartly-dressed waiter interrupts you
before you can make up any excuses for your ignorance.

 

“Mr. Epson? Miss Latham? In thanks for your support, dinner is on Stratiform,
Limited tonight. What can I get you?”

 

Shit. You flip through an imaginary rolodex for meals you understand to be
expensive and cosmopolitan.

 

“Uh, Ribeye?”

 

He’s still looking at you.

 

“...and a beer.”

 

“Which label, sir? We’re stocked with Ballantine, Burke, Foxhead, and
Feigenspan.”

 

“Foxhead,” you snap, recognizing the name.

 

Whitney’s smirk broadens.

 

“Very good, sir. Miss Latham?”

 

She smiles sweetly.

 

“Duck, blini caviar, and... the Chateau Haut-Brion.”

 

“Very good, miss.”

 

The waiter moves on. You must be staring, because her smirk is wide enough now
to show teeth.

 

“What? If they’re going to blow this much smoke up our asses, I aim to enjoy it.
It’s the least they could do. Get ‘yerself somethin’ nice. A scotch, maybe.
Gotta’ blend in if we want to work out what they’re up to.”

 

Right, that. You’d actually forgotten for a minute. A pleasant minute.

 

“Give it a rest, will ‘ya, Kid? It’s probably just gold or something. You saw
the size of the paycheck.”

 

“But we’re going to find out for sure. You promised.”

 

“I know. We will.”

 

“Good.”

 

She re-arranges a few nervously-scattered whiskers.

 

“Cap’n, I can tell you don’t buy they’re treatin’ us like this out of
generosity. They want us distracted; mark my words.”

 

“With a feast on the first evening of the voyage? Isn’t that tradition or
something?”

 

You’re pretty sure you read that somewhere. Her eyes narrow.

 

“It’s \_Avalonian \_tradition,” she spits, “And like you said, Echo ain’t
Avalonian.”

 

“And you don’t reckon it’s just an apology for the room-locking? Like you said,
it’s the least they could do.”

 

She flinches at the mention of it. The waiter passes, and she snatches the
drinks from him, jamming the stem of her glass between her toes and taking a
generous, unsophisticated gulp.

 

“We’re looking into it,” she mutters, but the aristocratic poise is back by the
time she sets the glass down. Your beer is pretty lame, but it’ll do.

 

The food arrives shortly. You do your best to hide your attempts to copy her
utensil selections, but as it turns out, Whitney isn’t the most elegant eater.
It’s plain to see the flask-drinking, revolver carrying woman slip from behind
the veneer as she gobbles the caviar, and it puts you at ease.

 

The ribeye is incredible: blood rare, and soaked in spice and varnish the likes
of which you’ve never tasted. Maybe it’s a good sign. You really want it to be a
good sign. Try as you might, you can’t help but like the treatment you’re
getting, authenticity be damned, even for all the concern Whitney’s prevailed on
you. The pay is unthinkable; the food, unmatched. It’s all too good to be true,
surely, but what if it \_was\_ true? Since that morning on the sod runway you’d
wanted nothing more than this, and just maybe it’ll be the best decision you’ve
ever made. Maybe dreams do come true!

 

You stop short of trying to share the optimism.

 

“So Whitney, what’s the story with that old pistol?”

 

Her ears fold, suddenly sheepish.

 

“Dad gave it to me.”

 

“A wheelgun? I hear you folk have all kinds of wild shit over there.”

 

She groans.

 

“I won’t kid you with excuses, Cap’n. You saw the poster. You know why I carry a
revolver.”

 

You snort, returning the smirk you reckon you owe her by now.

 

“Why, Josey Robins?”

 

“Hey, I grew up listening to him. The songs, the radio dramas, moving pictures,
when he got picked up there.... It’s not my fault I fell in love with him for a
few, awkward teenage years. I dunno, Cap’n. The aesthetic just stayed with me.”

 

“You guys don’t even \_have\_ a wild west.”

 

“Some of us like yours, okay?”

 

A strain in her words begs you to stop pressing. Fun as it is, you back off.

 

“Well, it’s a very nice piece.”

 

“You’re goddamn right it is. Genuine Colt; not easy to come by where I’m from.”

 

She’s clearly sizing you up for something to call you out on in revenge, but
somewhere a speaker crackles to life before she can. An uneasy silence settles
over the room.

 

“Captain Walker speaking.”

 

The voice buzzes over the intercom with a casual confidence that’s very
difficult to ignore. You’re not sure if it makes you feel better or worse.

 

“On behalf of the Stratiform corporation, and on behalf of her permanent
shipboard crew and senior staff, I would like to officially welcome you aboard
Echo.”

 

There’s something peculiar about his accent you can’t place.

 

“As you may have heard, we are transporting very sensitive cargo. I apologize
for any alarm the lockdown earlier may have caused and I regret its necessity,
but something came up, and it is imperative that this cargo remains secure.”

 

Whitney doesn’t acknowledge your I-told-you-so look.

 

“Unfortunately I cannot disclose our route at this time. Despite this, while
we’ve conducted this operation as quietly as possible, it’s very likely that we
will meet resistance. I’ll repeat: the security of the payload is of the utmost
importance. I wish I could tell you how much rides on its safe arrival, but I
want you to know that no matter how many figures Stratiform Ltd pays you all for
this, I consider it a personal favor.”

 

Both of your eyes widen.

 

“Thank you for protecting my beautiful airship; I wish you all the best for the
coming voyage. Unfortunately I do have to ask you to remain in your respective
mess halls for the remainder of the loading process, so please, enjoy the rest
of your evening. Refreshment and entertainment will be provided, courtesy of
myself and the Stratiform corporation. Thank you. Captain Walker.”

 

The intercom pops and dies, and piano music fills the silence. At some point
during the speech Whitney grabbed hold of your hand, or perhaps the other way
around. You wait for her to pull her paw back, but she doesn’t seem to notice
it’s there. She rests her chin on the other and seems to stare through you.

 

“What do you make of that, Cap’n?”

 

“I don’t know.”

 

“Yeah. Me neither.”
